---
episode: "Transcript Episode 13 Dan Abramov"
permalink: /episode-13-bad-tests-dan-abramov
status: publish
type: transcript
---

**Michaela:** [00:00:02] Hello and welcome to the Software Engineering Unlocked
podcast. I'm your host, Dr. McKayla, and today I have the pleasure to talk to
Dan Abramov. Dan is probably the most well known person in the whole front-end
development online scene. Dan mostly works on React, a very popular framework
for JavaScript. Dan is also very vocal about JavaScript, React and development
on his Twitter, as well as on his personal blog.

Dan is also actively supporting diversity in the tech space and recently started
a side project next to his day to day job at Facebook. So I'm super thrilled to
have Dan here with me today. Dan, thank you so much for joining the show.

**Dan:** [00:00:40] Thank you. Hi.

**Michaela:** [00:00:42] So Dan, you're actually a software engineer at Facebook
in London.

Can you tell me a little bit about what your day to day actually looks like?

**Dan:** [00:00:49] Yeah. So I work on the React core team. Even though most of
the team is in Menlo park, in United States, but we do have a few people in
London. So I work on React itself mostly, the open source library that some of
the listeners might be using. I work on most of the things like fixing bugs in
it, deploying new versions and working on new features, sometimes writing
documentation, figuring out the migration paths when we change APIs and just
general kind of maintenance for the library.

**Michaela:** [00:01:26] Yeah. So I actually read through your decade in review
blog post, which I also link down in the show notes. And there you described how
you interviewed for Facebook, and so you described that you were at a conference
and you gave a talk and there were also people there from Facebook and one of
the people from Facebook you knew already from online collaboration and through
chats.

And this person asks you if you would like to interview right there at the
conference in a hotel or something like that. And you spontaneously started to
go through a whole interview loop right there in the hotel. So can you tell us a
little bit more about the interview process itself? Which questions did they ask
you and how does this experience compare to a regular interview process at
Facebook?

**Dan:** [00:02:12] Yeah. so the interview process really depends on the exact
role, and that's actually at least like at Facebook, that's a pretty important
distinction, because if you apply for fontend engineer, that's an entirely
different interview process from applying to your software engineer.

Even though internally these positions are exactly the same. So once you get in,
it doesn't matter which one they were hired with, but the interview process is
very different. So the one that I went through was front end engineer process,
which is, it is, I find it to be a bit more practical in terms of like what
questions get asked, because the regular software engineer process it, it is a
bit computer sciency. and I'm like, I'm not super good at those questions. , but
for, for the front end interview, we ask things that we think would be
irrelevant to the actual, like application development, with JavaScript.

It's mostly, so in terms of length, I can't say the exact length. it also
depends on the office and the exact, like role title. But, I think it's
something like four hours. So I think like the Yuto, interview processes. He, if
first go through kind of a screening interview that is, like a coding interview,
but it's remote, that, because usually like, but we need to go through that
first before we bring somebody onsite.

And then the onsite process is something like four hours and it's, easily three
coding interviews, each, each interviews, with the different person, and it
takes roughly 45 minutes, I think each. And, there is a, a couple of coding
interviews, one interview about the past experience, in one interview that is
more a kind of design architecture, kind of interview.

But all of those are tailored to frontend. So that's pretty much what I went
through. And, in this case, I was just lucky that, there were four different
people from Facebook at that conference, because there were speakers. and yeah,
and we, we do use whiteboards, but we, at least in the front end interview
process, we don't use the typical, like computer science, whiteboard questions.

So it's not about those on some weird data structures that aren't relevant in
frontend, but it's more about things that you might encounter. And so we do use
whiteboards in the sense that, we don't give you computer to write code in,
like, so you have to write on paper or on whiteboard.

But we also try to treat it like just as a draft. So I think it's good to
practice with whiteboard. But it's, like sometimes whiteboard is annoying,
right? Like, you can't copy and paste, and just stuff like this. but this is
also why we try to keep the questions, relatively small. so we don't expect
solutions to be more than like a 30, 40 lines of code for most questions.

So the whiteboard is also useful just to kind of communicate ideas and just
discuss like trade-offs and what are the different things you could do, your
different problems you might encounter with the solution.

**Michaela:** [00:05:29] Yeah. Actually, I think white boards sometimes feel so
intimidating because it reminds people, and, well, I'm generalizing here from
myself, it reminds of a classroom setting, right?

So where you have like a teacher that asks you to be in front of the class and
then you'd solve something, and if you can't solve it, it's very embarrassing. I
think maybe that's the connotation that we have with bite boards because apart
from that, I really love whiteboards. I mean, my office is full of whiteboards
and I love to write on them.

It's just that in the interview process where you're in a very vulnerable
position, I think it becomes a little bit of an intimidating thing. But what I
wanted to ask you, as well as, are you right now involved in hiring at Facebook?
Do you, do you do interviews? And if so, what question do you ask and how do you
determine if a candidate is a good fit?

**Dan:** [00:06:18] Yeah. so I do coding interviews. I don't do experience or
architecture interviews, not yet. So it's, it's just coding, So, I obviously
can't give you the actual questions that we use. But I think in general, the
things that I look for are, a solid understanding of the language, that's fun.
So, we expect that, people know JavaScript, people who apply know JavaScript
pretty well. And, We don't actually test for any like libraries or frameworks.
We don't ask react questions at all. we assume that if you know the language,
you will figure it out, like in your library. But if you only know the library,
then you're going to struggle with like other libraries.

We're going to expect you to understand the language. So it's like, in terms of
language, it's like things like understanding variables, closures, asynchronous
programming, control flow, functions, and how all those things kind of work
together. then in terms of data structures for final interview, and again, we
don't expect to you to like, understand any super computer sciency things that,
that are on the current front end. But some data structures do occur in front
end. So like trees for example, you don't see, like, I dunno, red black trees or
something like this, but, you do see Dom trees or like, react element trees is,
and just understanding how to work with trees, like how to kind of traverse
them. What you could do with them? is important. and also just like, another
example is like, a lot of interview training questions that you might see on the
web are about what is the performance of this code? What is the complexity?
Like, is it like, O(N) or O(N<sup>2</sup>) and so on.

So we don't expect people to like necessarily memorize those. But to the extent
that it is practical, like it's, it's valuable to know those things. so like a
practical example, maybe, here's some code, that maybe it takes a, like a a
hundred milliseconds, for like a thousand items.

But then if there's 10,000 items, then suddenly it takes like two seconds. so
what is the problem with the code and how do we fix it? And so. You can kind of
like, even if you don't have full kind of theoretical, like if you don't know
all the correct terms, but you have the right intuition about, where the
slowness occurs and why, and what is the approach to fixing it and how to use
like objects or a raise or appropriate data structures, to fix the problem,
that's fine.

So that, that's what we're looking for. so it's a, it's kind of interesting
because like in front end, It's very important that you care about user
experience. Like that's, that's another thing we're looking for. But sometimes
it does involve some of those fundamentals and we don't care that much that
you're a great at theory, but we want to see that he can apply those principles
in practice.

**Michaela:** [00:09:19] So also what you mentioned in your blog post was that
you were really nervous and that you had some difficulties actually swapping two
items in an array, and somehow the interviewer encouraged you and she gave you
the confidence that you could actually move on. So, she helped you to move past.
What I would call a little bit of a black bow.

Right? That was caused by a setting and your anxiety of the interview. And I
find it really good that you are outspoken about that and that you say something
like that openly. I mean, interviews can be nerve wrecking and they create
unnecessary anxieties. I can totally relate to that and I think one of the
reasons why I'm self employed right now is because I don't want to go through
any dreadful interviews.

That, how can we make the interview process less intimidating and remove some of
the biases from the interviewers and make them also more inclusive?

**Dan:** [00:10:09] Yeah. So I'm not, I'm not like an authority on the subject
and also like people, I've seen people get pretty nervous during the interviews.
I think like one thing that helps is, that's why we have several, right.

So, it's rare that everybody has exactly the same feedback. So this is why, we
uh, we keep it so that, they have multiple interviewers. Every interviewer has
to submit their feedback before they see feedback from others so that their
feedback doesn't get biased by what the other interviewers say.

You can't like change a decision. But then you also, like once, all the feedback
is in, you also look at, look at it as a group and taught it pick out similar
themes like, Oh yeah, it seems like there is kind of a knowledge gap in this
area, but maybe they are really well in this other area. And then it's kind of
balance in like, do it ultimately what we want to figure out is, it's not like,
is this person a great programmer? But like other, again, to be successful, In
this environment. And so sometimes, It may be that maybe the person's very good
technically, but they don't communicate well. And so this is going to be a
pretty big problem because we expect people to communicate a lot, especially as
the like progress in their careers.

So, I think like another tip for interviews, at least like for Facebook, I don't
know how people interview at other companies, but, We really care that you
explain what you do and kind of explain your thinking process, that he listened
to the hints. So like the interviewer is on your side. The interviewer wants you
to do well.

And sometimes we kind of give hints like, Hey, like maybe this is not the right
direction. I'm like, are you sure about this? what are the other things you
considered? And. Sometimes people listen to them very well. And that, that gives
us, if you learn that, yeah. Like this, this person is like they can work in a
team, they understand when, they, they had been asked to do something or they
are, like they're being challenged.

And sometimes people just don't listen at all. And. It's like, okay, well what
if there is a work problem and we are trying to communicate something and this
person doesn't hear us? so , that's also important is just to have a clear
communication, clear thought process, and kind of both listen to the interviewer
and also explain the way you're approaching the problem.

**Michaela:** [00:12:35] So you know that for many people working at Facebook,
Google, and Microsoft is one of the big dreams. Was it also for you that it was
a year long dream to work at Facebook? Did you think about that, or did you
envision yourself, especially given that you were working with react, did you
think Facebook would be a good place for you?

At least for awhile?

**Dan:** [00:12:52] Yeah. so I, I think early on in my career I didn't really,
like care about big companies as much. so I am originally from Russia, so there
was like a Russian company that I wanted to work at, which is kind of like a
Facebook clone, but they had a really full, polished product.

And I think the thing that compelled me about it is that it's team was actually
not big, so it was like 10 or 15 people who were actually working on the Web
Site. I don't think I, I felt like. I really wanted to work at a big company at
the time. and so I didn't really consider Facebook at all. and later on, so
after I started like putting out some open source organ react ecosystem, I did
get contacted by a Facebook recruiter and I did feel like I would want to work
here. but then again, not because it's like Facebook, but because I knew people
who were working here, right? Like Jane Chan, who was like one of my
interviewers. and she's the person I met at the conference, but also like, a few
other people who were on the react team.

And, like even today, I feel like, if I was not on the react team, like, There
are things that are like about Facebook. There are things that I like less, like
I don't like open floor spaces very much. although I can also see why Facebook
is, is kind of doing that. but I think what really kind of keeps me here is
just, there's so many smart people to learn from and to, like I, I feel like
before Facebook, at least like in my career, I would always kind of max out.

Like, maybe start the company, I can reach some, well the thing that I'm doing
and that I'm not sure what, what is the next, like how do I keep learning? I
just keep doing the same thing. And at Facebook there's always going to be
someone smarter than me or more talented than me or just somebody who, just does
things I haven't learned yet.

And so it's really, If you like learning, it's really fun to be around.

**Michaela:** [00:14:46] Yeah. Yeah. I had the same feeling at Microsoft that
there is always, I mean, at lunch you go a lunch with some of your colleagues
and you could learn something, right? You're like, wow, I didn't know about
that. Yeah. So, but what was also happening at Microsoft quite a bit, where
reorganizations for examples and.

I was lucky that it wasn't really affecting me. So we were quite a bit, but it
was always the whole team that bugs reorg. And suddenly we were, instead of
research, we were part of research and development, and then we were a part of
visual studio, for example. But somehow. They wait until the end. They, you
know, they didn't take us apart or change our mission or something like that.

But it happened for many, many, many other teams. And so is that also happening
at Facebook? Are people reorg, you know, moved onto different projects without
actually volunteering to do that? And what would that mean for you, for example?

**Dan:** [00:15:42] Yeah, so that does happen as an any large company. It's not
super common, but it's also not super uncommon.

So we use a workplace as the primary means of communication. The workplace is
like a, a version of Facebook, but for work. so we use, like most of the
communication happens on workplace messenger and, and the groups, which is like
Facebook groups, but again, for work.

And so, there is a group called, this week in reorgs, all the posts announced
and reorgs get reshared to that group. So this is, it's kind of funny. I mean, I
think it's like one post for like three weeks, something like this, but it's a
huge company. so this doesn't really happen like completely out of the blue.

So usually when there's reorg, it's because, something is not working and the
chance to fix it by like shuffling people around, often teams around, maybe
there is like a new director who wants to consolidate things differently. I
wouldn't expect the react team to suddenly become like reorg the way, because
we, we actually have, like, there is actually a react org.

So this, this includes, management of, reacting really, like the team that's
working on the new website. So Facebook is like rewriting the website in react
really, And so , our org did get moved a few times. but that's actually, it's
kind of interesting because it got moved from, It used to be closer to kinda
Tulane. but it got moved to being closer to the application. and that does make
sense because, it's a word called product infrastructure. And I think that's,
that's a really important part of kind of Facebook approach to like UI to learn
and react is, to keep it very close to actual, like developers using this stuff
so that we don't kind of invent things in a vacuum and just like release it into
the world.

But that we actually, like talk to people using this stuff. And if it's not
working out, like it doesn't go through like five levels of, like management
chain, but it goes directly to us. and that keeps us, that gives us a good
reality check.

**Michaela:** [00:18:05] Okay. Yeah. So, well, react, especially react 16 is now
with the MIT license.

And so it's a proper opensource software. And do you feel that sometimes there
is a balancing act between what you have to consider for, you know, the benefits
of the company and then, versus the benefits of the community? Or are those
interests really aligned and very easy to combine?

**Dan:** [00:18:28] I think it depends on the, period and like, what do we want
to do? I think, like one way, Tom, who's like my, Our current manager. So one
way Tom has been, putting it is that you can imagine there's like a stack of
things that are only important to Facebook. And then there is a stack of things
that are only put into open source.

And then there is a third stack, which is like things that are important to
both. And even if we just keep working on the third stack, like it just never
ends. So it's like there is enough intersection that, We kinda, we can keep
going. I think the bigger split is actually not between the Facebook and open
source, but it is between serve in like legacy existing code versus, paving the
way for like improvements that are not incremental, and making sure that we
don't get stuck in the past, because of the existing code. And like, we care
about existing code a lot, but also at some point, like you need to make a
choice that you, kind of move forward or, are you stock during the same thing.
And I think that is, that is kind of a bigger split.

Sometimes we have periods where we're all about maintenance, fixing bugs,
improving documentation like Jane, all those things that serve existing user
base and existing code. But sometimes we, we're going to focus on innovation.
But then we tend to neglect, the, like the existing features a little bit, and
it's just. We're going to switch between those cycles as as we Polish, new
things and kind of get them out and then they all go through this same life
cycle. .

**Michaela:** [00:20:09] Yeah. Especially backwards compatibility can really
bite you, right?

Oh yeah.

So I feel like you are really fundamental to the react community. Some people
even believe you are the original creator of the react framework. Well, on your
Twitter profile, the first thing that you state is, I did not make reacts.

So apparently you have to even, you know. Say it out loud. People don't project
that to you, but still have the feeling that many people are projecting many
different things onto you. Do you sometimes feel that there is too much way and
responsibility on your shoulder, especially when it comes to the community and
you know how the community behaves and things like that?

**Dan:** [00:20:48] Yeah.

**Michaela:** [00:20:50] Do you have an idea how you got into that position? Why
are people projecting things onto you and why do they think you are responsible?

**Dan:** [00:20:58] I think it's, it's a bunch of things. so one is, I was there
pretty early on, maybe during the year. Like, boom, off reacts like thousand 15.
So I built a bunch of stuff for myself because I just, because it didn't exist.

So like I, I helped, add some features to react router. I helped like have a few
libraries, worked on hot reloading, which. Which is like a way to edit the page
and see changes reflected in real time without like refreshing the application.
So working on a bunch of things that people found interesting and I was working
on them just because like nobody else was.

And it was still a very early time in the ecosystem. And so I also answered a
bunch of Stackoverflow questions and I think people just saw. Like, it's when
people come in a bit later in the ecosystem. They just saw my face everywhere
cause I would just like commenting because I was there early. I think that that
is part of the reason, that the other one is just, I think I've worked on
projects that, people found interest in, or like inspiring or eventually
confusing, like with the Redux which was supposed to be a proof of concept for
conference talk and not really like, the whole thing. But I think people like I,
I'll take that I'm pretty good at making demos and, I'm not really good at like
original ideas. So what I, what I try to do is, I try to, find smart people with
really good ideas who are struggling to kind of explain those ideas and by why
those ideas matter.

And I try to popularize them because I think that these ideas deserve that. And
I think people respond to that. So another part is just like, you remember who
you learn from. Like I remember people I learned from like 10 years ago, even
though they don't blog anymore, or like , I used to read like every Clippers
blog on C sharp and like , I don't care about C-sharp anymore.

But like I remember him because I learned from him and I think people tend to
remember people they learned from. So I think that's, that's another reason.
That people kind of remember me.

**Michaela:** [00:23:13] I think also sometimes it's like the person who takes
on responsibility is responsible.

And I have a feeling that if you see something is broken down, you are the
person that takes action and the fix it. It are be part of the solution. And I
think maybe that's also, well, one of the reasons why that's happening. I don't
know. What do you think?

**Dan:** [00:23:35] I dunno. Fix enough things. I kind of feel like lately in
the last three years, I'm just, kind of goes then like I used to read, like all
the notifications and like fix all the issues in my libraries.

And for the past year I've completely unsubscribed from everything that's not
react. I don't even check issues. Like, I felt bad about it for awhile, but then
like, yeah, like I've done my work and I, I feel like I just can focus on these
things right now and I need to cut them out and hope that somebody else will
pick it up and I'll just work on the things that I think are important to me
today, but not necessarily, be a good maintainer anymore.

**Michaela:** [00:24:18] Well, I don't think you have to make him life
commitment out of everything that you do. And I mean, you are stepping away from
something means that there is space that somebody else can fill up, which, you
know, gives opportunities to others as well. So I think it can be a good thing
as well. It's always how you want to see it.

**Dan:** [00:24:36] So it's a. Yes, but it's also kind of like a Tom Sawyer move
where, you know, like when, when he says like, Oh, it's so amazing to paint this
fence. and then like, he finds people to paint the fence for him, but it's
still, especially like if those people are in the same position that I was,
which is, like I wasn't working on this full time.

It's just like a side thing and I also had a job. And so it's kind of like
unpaid labor. And, if I get paid to the open source and I hand off tasks to
somebody who doesn't get paid to do that, then it's, it's like, sure. Maybe that
will give them some opportunities to like, speak at meetups or like at
conferences or like, Get a better job in the future with like improve their
portfolio but also like, not necessarily, and they're not necessarily, you're
going to be able to take advantage of it. And like the whole system where it got
to have to do it is, well, when I have to pick up this optional work, just to
kind of be competitive in the marketplace is also kind of weird.

So I dunno how I feel about that.

**Michaela:** [00:25:40] Yeah, I am a mother of two and I know exactly what
you're talking about. I know what it means that you cannot put in all the hours
that you want, especially with the contributions outside of the regular work.
There are just simple, plain limitations for some people on how much work they
can put in and yeah, I really liked that.

You are so considerate of all the different aspects and everything that you said
really makes sense. I think that there are many different angles to story and I
think that people are free to pick up and make something good out of it for
themselves. For example, I thought a lot about what it means to take
responsibility of your own career, and I think I wasn't particularly good in the
past at doing so.

I mean, I put in all the work. But I made also mistakes when promoting and
showing off my work. For example, during my PhD, I blocked on the university
website, which is the stupidest thing that you could do because I'm not owning
the content. And you know what happened after a while, they just deleted it,
right?

So they were like, Oh, she's gone now for a few years. Let's delete it. So
everything that I ever wrote about the systems I implemented, is not there
anymore. The good thing, there are official publications and all that, but my
point is that I could have, you know, advanced by career, definitely could have
advanced my career if I would have been more you know more caring for myself and
thinking about making a more conscious decision that actually this should be on
my own site. And similarly, during my time at Microsoft, I didn't let the
outside world know what I was doing. I was very focused on their work inside.
But after a while, you know. It's, it's not a good strategy because nobody
actually takes care of you.

It's really your responsibility. And I think it's similar here, right? In open
source software, there's so many different motivations for why you could pick it
up. You can learn, for example, if you want, you can also promote yourself. but
yeah, I see the negative sides to it, as well. So sometimes people feel taking
advantage of. And so I think that's why it's really important to step a little
bit decide and really think about why are we doing that? What are the outcomes
that we would like to achieve and how can we align that with what we are doing.
Well, but, having said all that, I want to switch gears a little bit and talk
about software engineering practices, especially at Facebook, because that's
what I'm really interested about.

So I wanted to know if there are some company-wide practices and if you have
insights into that, for example, one of the slogans for Facebook is move fast
and break things. And also one of the Twitter comments was that people actually
mentioned that it has changed it a little bit. It's something like a more fast
and break things, but have a stable infrastructure or something like that.

So do you have a particular way in which software is developed at Facebook and
what do you think it means? Move fast and break things? What happens at
Facebook. And what's the impact of that slogan?

**Dan:** [00:28:47] Yeah. Well, so the official answer is that, yeah, that we,
we don't, we don't use that motto anymore. It works with a, some things, but it
can have pretty bad consequences for other things.

I think, and I think it's true that it's, are there are parts of this mindset
that as the left, and there are parts of this mindset, I think like, why this
may not be a good approach is So one thing that we've started doing, I guess,
like several years ago is, Like whenever you make change, that affects, like
things like privacy or security. there is a lot of more, or even like
accessibility. There is a lot more cross functional review that like in early
days that wasn't the case.

Right? So like in the early days, they could exchange stuff and as long as like
one engineer accepts it, it's live to production. So I think there is. Like,
we've tightened that a lot. so it's harder to like make changes to those
critical things without getting like a good review from like a policy and
security and privacy and all of those orgs.

But fraternities that are like relatively safe, I think that mindset is still
like partially lives on. and the most kind of valuable part of the fit that I
see is just, if you don't have a strong code ownership, process, so what that
means in fact is, is that, if I want to fix something, Like a, maybe in a
product that I don't own, right? Like maybe I want to, I see a bug, an
Instagram, or like a see bug in workplace or just in common section and I work
in a react team.

I don't own any of the surfaces, but as long as I can get like somebody were
necessarily like the owner, but like some other engineer, approve of my change.
And as long as it doesn't like concern itself with things that are risky, like
privacy or security, then I can, I can ship my fix.

And so, in practice, this means that people are empowered, to pick things up
whereas like in, in some other companies. you have to get a review from somebody
who is like in this file, like you have to get review for somebody in file
called owners in this directory.

So we don't have that. we usually like, if, if the code is so, like fragile,
that is so scary to change, then you should have better tests. And if, If you
really want some team to kind of look at the changes, then you create automatic
things. So you kind of add them as like optional reviewers or like it create
things on top, but it's still, we kind of expect engineers, to rely on, just
social behaviors a lot more. So for example, if I'm fixing a bug in the
Instagram, I won't like just ask my coworker to stamp my change, but I will look
at the blame for that file and I look at like the history and see, Oh, this,
this person changed that line. They might have context on this. So we'll message
them on the workplace messenger and say, Hey, like I'm changing this thing.

I think this is, the right thing and ask to take a look at it. And so it's
expected that even though you. Like you are given a lot, more freedom. It is
kind of on you to ensure that, like, to actually trust the change, to pick the
right people, to review it and to, to commit it. And then, to just be there.

So we call it like support in your changes, which just means like you commit
them and you. Watch the graphs, or you notify the person who was on the call for
this product. Hey, like, here's like a thing I changed just in case something
blows up. Like, ah, I'm the person responsible for it.

So it's like the chicken, people that here is, like you have a lot of freedom,
but you also have this responsibility. And that's something like, at first
you're going to mess up and you're gonna like, maybe not take the side down, but
maybe like. Yeah. Are you might, like mess something up. hopefully like automate
the system, sketch it before it goes out to all the users.

But we also expect the, just the kind of learn to be responsible with your
changes and learn how to be there and to build those connections. And then the
thing is. That actually, encourage a lot more collaboration in the future.
Because like the next time, maybe you want something from like Instagram, you
can message that person.

We'll review the change and say, Hey, like, maybe you can help me with this. Oh,
like, so you, you built all those, like social connections within the company
and then, it's a lot more efficient than always go in through like. Posting and
in groups or like official channels is everyone is encouraged to create their
own kind of network within the company.

And I think that's, that's actually pretty cool.

**Michaela:** [00:33:29] Yeah. well, so you mentioned testing a little bit, so I
would like to know how does testing work at Facebook? Do you have like one
company wide strategy or does testing depend on the kind of part of the software
that you are testing or maybe the team that you're working with also?

Are there some manual tests happening or penetration tests happening in
Facebook? And if so, how does it look like.

**Dan:** [00:33:52] So it really depends on, yeah, on the product. And the,
again, like there's like things like security or privacy that are kinda separate
and there are like teams, we're actively, tried to break it.

We have this, shifting left, which is, like if you, if you draw kind of a graph
of like, At different stages where you just may care. So it's like, there is
like code review, there's like automated static analysis and like Lint Lint
checks and then there's like code review and then there's like out to a subset
of users out to all users.

And then like the further you go to the right, kind of the worse it is. So like
this, they just have to be to discover the issue, right. And like, the worst one
is like when people actually find it so it's, it's like the scale and the, the
thing that like those teams are trying to do is shift the outcomes to the left.
So like, figure out, okay, we didn't catch this thing, but how do we catch all
the things of this class the next time?

And how do we catch something that was caused only. After the commit by tests,
how do we change it so that it would have been caught before the commit? Or like
how do we make sure that this, this whole pattern is impossible because the API
doesn't allow you to do a bad thing?

There are like things like security and privacy where like those mechanisms and
various tricks. But then, for like a lot of just regular product development,
individual teams have, like a lot of freedom with how they test stuff. so some
companies do have very strict policies on like test coverage and like component
unit testing.

Like every component should be unit tested. We don't believe in that. Because
like in a lot of cases, bad tests actually slow you down more than my product
issues. And they also, for example, like you do some internal refactoring of
some component and it doesn't affect the behavior though, but a bunch of tests
break because they assume that whatever the shape was, it doesn't change. And so
that, that's like an example of a bad test. And so we try to minimize those and
we try to make sure that our tests are mostly kind of end to end. We have a few
custom frameworks around making that easier and like making those tests less
flaky. but we're trying to make sure we test the actual behaviors that people
experience and not like internal implementation details because we really care
that it's easy to change, that there's lot of plasticity in the product code and
bad tests really hurt that.

**Michaela:** [00:36:27] So I did a study, probably, I thought about it
yesterday, I think it's almost 10 years ago, and it was about testing and how
eclipse, not only the IDE eclipse, but the whole ecosystems of plugins and
plugins systems. Well, how people would test those modular systems. And at that
time, a lot of the people were focusing and advocating for unit tests and
integration tests and system tests.

And especially UI tests on the other hand, were often seen as a bad thing. But
over the years, especially the last few years, I see more and more people
actually shifting their mindset again and now people advocate and implement more
end-to-end tests. And I think it's because the better answer, many of the
problems you've just described.

So do you see this shift also happening for testing at Facebook? Yeah.

**Dan:** [00:37:14] I think like we even had the same problem with the react
where we were, we were basically rewriting react at some point. that's already
done. That was react 16, pretty much almost fully backwards compatible rewrite,
which is like not, not very common.

But, We had a bunch of tests that were testing internal modules. So like one,
problem is like when we talk about unit tests, then people have very strong
opinions, but what is even the unit like that's such a meaningless term. Like
you can say anything is unit, so like is reacts itself a unit or like is one
more one file in react a unit or like a group of files?

I don't know. And so, but what we found is that. If see to this rewrite, we,
like we actually had to replace most of the implementation completely. So it was
like written from scratch, entirely different architecture internally. And so.
that's that were written against specific files, and it was like testing the
internal API of that module.

They were useless because they didn't actually correspond to anything that the
user would see. And also, if you read it like three years later, you're like,
okay, I understand what this test is destined for in terms of this module, but
why is this the behavior? Like what does it, what is, what is the problem it was
trying to solve?

Why was this behavior added? And so you still have to find in like git blame,
here's the political events that added this test and this behavior and here's
the actual issue was trying to solve. And so the problem is like maybe there's
another solution to this issue.

But even if you solve it in a different way, that test won't tell you that. and
so we had to rewrite a bunch of tests to only use public API, which, like in
many cases just look like the original reports that like reported the issue.
They had examples. Here's the thing that's broken. And so we turned that into a
test.

And so now we know that. Whatever the solution we have, if we change it to some
other equivalent solution that also solves this problem, that task will still
pass. And that's. Let, like, that's our aim is to be able to, to throw away the
implementation, completely rewrite it and still have the test passing.

Or another thing we do sometimes is we have two copies of the implementation.
So, and that's also what we did at Facebook. We were doing with these branches.
like not, we don't use long in branches. We use branches on the for like just.
Just to get something reviewed like 300 lines, but then they merge it.

And so we, we rely extensively on feature flex, the enable and disable
functionality or the switch between different implementations. So we might have
like some module version one and some module number two checked in. And we have
a dynamic chat that says like, if it's like maybe it's out to like 1% of users
and then 50% of users, and we'll see if there are any progressions and metrics.

And then when we're confident that the fix actually works and it doesn't make
anything worse, then we'll switch it over to 100% and delete the old
implementation. But the one, the tasks to. To be able to test both at the same
time. So that's why like we try to not include implementation details in, in
these tests.

**Michaela:** [00:40:31] Yeah. So it's really about writing robust tests that
are, well, as you said, implementation independent. Yeah, I really like that. so
one of the other things I wanted to talk with you about is your new side
project, because you started something, it's called just JavaScript. Right? And
it's an email sequence, at least that's my latest information.

And I'm actually subscribed to this email sequence, and this little email course
is directed at people that have JavaScript knowledge but aren't feeling super
confident with it. And so the emails have information about fundamentals of the
language and you help people correct some of the misunderstandings they have
about how JavaScript actually works.

Well, I, I find this project really fascinating because it serves a niche in a
market that isn't saturated right now. For example, also on Twitter, somebody
asks, how do you fill gaps and holes in your knowledge when you're no longer a
beginner, but you haven't quite reached the intermediate stage? So I'm reading
her comment right now.

She says there are so few resources aimed at that level. Well, and I think that
just JavaScript is somehow an answer to that need, right? So there are tons of
resources out there for starting JavaScript or other languages. And they tell
you, for example, what is the variable and how to assign something.

And so very basic things. And then when you are moving on to more advanced
topics, there isn't, there isn't so much information anymore. And it's really
hard to get this very deep understanding. There was also another person on
Twitter asking, for example, what are some of the architectural patterns that
you should use for react?

Well, react isn't a JavaScript, but it highlights the same need and information
need about answers to question that are not easily found on blog posts or
somewhere else on the internet. So is that exactly what you want to do? Fill
those holes for intermediate developers.

**Dan:** [00:42:24] Yeah, that's pretty much how I described it.

There's like a few different ways to pitch it. So like one way to pitch it is
that indeed there is a lot of. Beginner resources, that are like,
oversimplifying things because they, they want to kind of get to, like excited
about the language.

They want to kinda get it started. So they try to make it a bit simpler than it
really is. And then there is a lot of misleading there. It's, it's sad. Like if
I tweeted, then people would be like, wait, what? Why don't you fix it? Well,
that's what I'm trying to do, right? So there's a lot of misleading information.

If you just read like stackoverflow questions about JavaScript, like every time
I read them, I just get really sad because it's, there is so much wrong info,
and I'm not saying this to promote my course, but like, just watch out if you're
reading stackoverflow . Unfortunately, it's like questions from 2007 when like
it was a wild West in JavaScript. And a lot of answers are either misinformed or
they're just not, not the way to do things. It's just they happen to work by
accident. and it's, it's just so much work. Like I, I just give up, like I do
have like moderator privileges on stackoverflow , so I can actually edit some of
those, but I just give up every time I look at those, cause it's, it's just so
bad.

And so there are some high quality resources for like advanced developers. but I
feel like, yeah, there, there is a gap and, Like, I imagine my target audience
as a, like a person who has maybe just graduated from a coding bootcamp and they
were taught, JavaScript in three weeks, react in three weeks, node JS in three
weeks.

And they're like, okay, now you're ready for a fun and job. And maybe it, like,
they, they do have some knowledge, obviously, if they are given a codebase and
the relative, scope task, they would probably be able to complete it and figure
it out, but some guidance or mentorship. but the thing is, if they don't have a
very strong mental model of how the code works, they probably do have is like a
mental model that's off in a few places.

That's like not entirely correct. it's just like, if you add more things to your
shaky foundation. Like everything kind of falls apart. And I see this a lot with
react where people like, I don't want to send react. And if you if you keep
asking them, okay, well what is the problem you run into that are like, Oh, this
thing doesn't behave as I expect.

Like this thing is not react. This thing is JavaScript. And they will sometimes
say, Oh, react is just JavaScript. And that's. It's kind of annoying too. Like I
can see how this can be seen as like demeaning and kinda, if you struggle with
JavaScript and you're told, Oh, it's just JavaScript well that that wasn't
helpful at all.

Like, that's actually like really, really annoying to hear. but I, I still
wanted to use that name to kind of reclaim it for, yeah, it is a bit confusing
if you come from a different language or if you were taught in a way that
doesn't actually match how JavaScript works, but this is something we can fix
because it's a, it's actually not that complicated. Is it just you need the
write structure. and I think I'm, I'm taking some liberties with this course. So
it's, it's really opinionated, not in terms of like what features they use, but
more in terms of how I presented. I put a lot of, a kind of emphasis on the idea
for a mental model.

So when you read the code. I don't, just want you to understand things in
theory, but I want you to kind of feel the go to like, to see the same
connections that an experienced developer sees when they read the code and to
kind of operate them in the same way that, Like can experienced person would
operate. And so the focus of the course is really to, to help you kind of see
this mental models that are inside like an expert's had, but they are. Opaque to
you. And so that my, my job is to extract them and to, to kind of help you see
them. And the first form with like emails is just benefit proof of concept.

But I want to make it a lot more interactive where you actually like interact
with those mental models as like things you can touch and kind of play with, and
get a sense of, Oh, so here is what JavaScript is really like in the conceptual
sense.

**Michaela:** [00:46:46] Yeah. That sounds really fascinating. I mean, I have so
many questions now popping up in my head that I want to ask you.

So let's start with one of the last things that you just said, which is you want
people to be able to touch the thing, which creates a very visual picture of
your course. In my head, and one of the first emails, you talked about boxes and
you ask if I ever thought about the variable as a box, which I never thought
about it like a box, but somehow that stuck with me.

So now I'm thinking, how can a variable be a box. And, if it is, how can you
move it? What would be the properties of that box, right? And yeah, and do you
do with the box and things like that. So will there be some visual aid for the
course? Will there be a screen, for example, and will I see things and will I be
able to interact with those?

And what will be the visual way for me to learn about JavaScript ? Or what else
did you mean by interaction.

**Dan:** [00:47:34] Yeah. So the, the funny thing is, we're actually not going
to use boxes. So a lot of people were taught boxes and like universities and
stuff for those could do dude have like a classic computer science education or
like some courses also do that.

But I've made a explicit decision to kind of do it completely differently. And,
some people are not happy about it, especially like people with like 15 years of
experience. So they are the ones who I messaged and they, Oh, this is a
completely wrong way to teach people. Like whatever.

**Michaela:** [00:48:03] I like that.

I think that if people are, you know, opposed to it, then you are doing
something right here.

**Dan:** [00:48:10] It is controversial, but I. I'm going to see, I think there
is some sense in what I'm teaching. So, Yeah. So there is a, in the current kind
of proof of concept stage, there's, like there's pictures and there's
animations.

So Maggie Appleton is a co creator of the course, and she's a, as soon as an
illustrator. So we meet with her and like, we sketch things out together and
she, she makes those gorgeous animations and illustrations for the course , so
it is pretty visual in many ways.

So in the, in this first situation is just like, animations and, , diagram
exercises. But I really envision it as a much more interactive thing in the
future. So I'd like to to move the exercises into the lessons, which you can't
really do with emails, but you could do with web pages. So I'd like to them to
be a part of the lessons rather than something at the end of the lessons. And I
like them to actually be interactive in the sense that you don't like just look
at the animation, but you actually like you drag things, like you kind of
connect them together.

And there's this translation layer where like it says, here's the code, do the
thing. To this, to this live thing, like do whatever the code says, and you're,
you're, Oh, okay, here's, here's what assignment operator does. So, it likes
connect things together. I like, here's what this thing does. And so it's like.

It's really like translate into learn in way to translate from code to this
visual environment and then back and eventually get on need the visual
environment because it's, you just understand the mechanics and the mechanics
become like a part of your mental model. so that's, that's kind of where I'm
going, I don't know.

That's it. That's going to work out, but I hope so.

**Michaela:** [00:49:57] Yeah, it really fascinating, especially when you said
that you present knowledge to somebody that isn't as experienced, that normally
only a very experienced developer has. Right? So I love teaching and right now
I'm giving code review workshops that I totally enjoy, but I also taught at
university and community college.

And even though I have been happy teaching for several years of my life, I know
that the most challenging thing is to extract tactic knowledge, so knowledge
that they are really, really familiar with. And then to, you know, put it. Yeah.
Put yourself in the shoes of a beginner and help them to understand it.

And I think, as you said at the beginning, some of the JavaScript courses are
abstracting things, they leave concepts out or hide something or they're not
explaining everything because they're aimed at making it easy for the person to
start understanding. And I also recall the time at school. Well, I actually
graduated from art school before I started to study computer science.

And the first six months they were really difficult because I didn't have any
mental models about computers. And you know, how programming works and how
things interact with each other. And it really took me a very long time until,
yeah. Things fell into places, right. And so before I, I understood what's
actually going on.

I was just doing the exercises or without understanding them. Do you know what I
mean? Like for example, I was writing Java methods without understanding why
it's working. I just did. And it worked. And I was puzzled and you know, piece
by piece, it started clicking. But right now, I wouldn't be able to, for
example, reverse engineered that process.

So it would be hard to be that person again and, and to know what I actually
struggled with. So how, how do you do that? How do you extract your tactic
Knowledge. And how do you know which holds people half. and which concepts they
may be misunderstood and, how do you know how to correct their mental models?

**Dan:** [00:51:54] So I wouldn't say that I really have the answers. I think
like, because I didn't have any formal kind of teaching experiences, I, I feel
like I'm unqualified to do it, but I still try to do it. I'm kind of, I do my
best. I know what people don't know just from experience.

So I, I try to. Kind of think of knowledge as a tree of ideas. And, there's
like, with dependencies between them. So like, do you understand this? To really
understand this, you have to understand like, this and this and this. And so,
like I, I have this kind of mental, like, mental model of mental models, a meta
mental model of what, like the tree of JavaScript knowledge is like.

With this course, I kind of lean back on the fact that I expect the person to
kind of know JavaScript already, so I can take shortcuts and like, I can use a
function before I really explain, like, I don't have a chapter on the functions
yet, but I kind of use them in simple ways assuming that the person kind of
knows what a function does. but like if I had to design this course for a
complete beginner, it would have been like, designed very differently. And
that's a lot harder. Like, I'm not qualified to do that. yet, definitely. but
one thing that, that, that I've noticed is that, like, you need to really let go
of assumptions. this is very similar to kind of profile in code when, you're
trying to figure out why the code is slow and you think it's like, Oh, I need to
optimize this, this, and this. But if you run it through the profiler, it's
actually somewhere you did not expect.

Like that's the bottleneck. And I think with learning, it's kind of similar in
that you might think that here are the things that the person misunderstands,
but there's actually something that you completely missed and like it may be
very fundamental. So I found that. Every time I thought, Oh, this is obvious.

Everyone knows that you test it on people. No, they don't.

That's why I have this like exercises and like diagrams, so I can get a sense of
did people get like whatever I was trying to show, like can they make those
connections themselves? And like if, if it seems like it's working, then I'll
keep building on top of that.

And that's also why it's been amazing to work with Maggie. Cause so she's an
illustrator and she doesn't have like a JavaScript background.

She does a little bit of JavaScript, like to the point that. Like shadows, write
code. but she doesn't have a deep knowledge. So it's been super helpful to kind
of bounce ideas off of her and kind of ask like, what do you think this code
does? And then see, Oh, this is your mental model

One way I've been thinking about it this, especially for people who already kind
of know stuff, it's like, it's a, it was like a decision tree where it's like
they learn all these concepts and then.

There's like, there are forks in the road where you can misunderstand something.
In like one of three ways, like it's usually not many ways to misunderstand
something. It's like maybe they misunderstood this, maybe this, or maybe this,
or maybe they're right. And so for each of those forks, again, to have come to
different combinations of like incorrect understanding.

And then if you're at least aware of like each of those forks and each like how
those misunderstandings will manifest themselves. So you can test them. So you
can make, like, it can make an exercise that, that shows whether the person
understands that particular thing or not. And then if you run it on like enough
people, you just gain enough insights to see where those forks are.

And then those are the things they're supposed to teach.

**Michaela:** [00:55:20] Yeah. Yeah. I really like your meta mental model of
mental models, so I think you are really onto something here, and I'm definitely
looking forward to reading more of that email course. And also. I'm looking
forward to the course that will come out of that prototype.

So one of the last thing I wanted to ask you, if your thoughts on improving
diversity and inclusion in tech, I know we are switching gears completely right
at the end, but I would like to know, what would you advise to somebody that
wants to do some impactful actions to make tech more inclusive and diverse?

What do you think?

**Dan:** [00:55:55] So I think if, that person Isn't the pirates of like
minoritized groups that like, we want to include them, they can step away and
try to amplify the voices of those people who are part of those groups because,
and that's actually something I haven't been very good at.

I think in a lot of cases, It's tempting to kinda like , if you're like white
male, you're gonna want to see yourself as a good guy. Like, Oh, I'm gonna, I'm
gonna help all those people or whatever. But really it's just your presence and
your, taking up of the resources that.

Like makes it more difficult for other people who don't have your network yet,
we don't rely on your connections, who don't have the kind of support in terms
of hiring where we hire people who we know, and in many cases, we know people
who we know, like socially and we know people socially who kind of like we do
things together with, so in many cases, they kind of look like us. Or, they're
like part of connections. that is, like this is creating this effect where, if
you start with some advantage, then it has this cumulative effect. So, I'm not
saying like that every guys would like, disappear from the internet.

That's not what I'm saying. but I think that is some misguided, but if knew
that, the best thing you can do is like, to do something. Whereas I think in, in
some cases, it's like, it's more about stepping away and, giving other people
the spotlight that they deserve and, helping them kind of make connections with
each other and, figuring out where it is that he, that you reinforce the
existing structures and how you can like, avoid doing that.

**Michaela:** [00:57:35] Yeah. Yeah. I like that. I like, especially the last
one, which is, again, it's a little bit about how we think about things, right?
Extracting and reverse engineering, what's actually going on. And I think that
especially what you said about amplifying, for example, is something that can be
done quite easily and could have a big effect.

So it's just something that we haven't covered in that interview that you think
we should touch on.

**Dan:** [00:57:58] I dunno. There's been so, so many topics. I feel like. I
discovered there were things on my mind. I don't know unless there's something
that you're still curious about that you want to talk about.

**Michaela:** [00:58:13] Yeah, no. Yeah, you're right. We've covered quite a
bit, well, one thing that I think many listeners would be interested in is your
opinion on the future of reactive Redux, and we haven't really touched at, so
maybe if you want to cover that for a few minutes, what do you think? Where is
everything heading towards to?

**Dan:** [00:58:30] Yeah. Well, I, I don't have a magic crystal ball, So I can't
really answer that. I, I always find it confusing when people ask me, like, what
is the feature of, ah, I don't even know if I'm like, we're going to be alive
tomorrow, so how can I know the future? But I think people underestimate how,
Unpredictable things are, like, I would, I guess I would be confused if somebody
was confident. Well, was going to happen. But I think like for react where we've
tried to be like as transparent as we can be about what are we building and why.

So there's like, if you're curious about those things, and I always go to react
blog. So that's, we actually as the.org/blog, we try to post about all big
updates or like upcoming features . I guess the big one is, building support for
concurrency into react and that, that means a lot of things and it's still not
quite ready.

So we don't talk about it a lot, but there's a few talks from React Conf that,
again, you can find on the blog at the talk about this. but I think the overall
kind of big picture of what we're trying to do is, like the big idea of react is
That here you want to describe things declaratively and, with the full power of
the language that we using. And I think in that sense, react has been hugely
successful because it's not just react like the adoption for react itself or
like even the react native. But, all the next generation libraries like Swift UI
in iOS and Jetpack compose for Android, they're following not exactly the same
approach, but they embraced this declarative, user interfaces, which was a very
controversial, like five years ago. So I think react has largely succeeded at
that. And the thing that also differentiates react from other libraries, like, I
don't, want to name, them, So that people , don't fight me on Twitter, but I
think an intentional design choice of react is that we embrace JavaScript and we
embrace the host language in the sense that if you want to have dynamic logic,
in JavaScript saying like, if this condition then show this thing, or like
operate on UI as a value, as a first class citizen and say, here's like three
things I want to render, like map them and like use the expressiveness of Java
script to do that. And we let you do that and we don't just let you, this is the
way to use react. We don't have like a separate template language that is like
less expressive. So I think that's another choice that react makes, which some
people agree with, some people disagree with.

But you can see that like Swift UI and compose are also making that choice. So
maybe there is something there. So I think that those are the areas in which
react has been successful. But, one downside of this paradigm is that it's very
developer centric. So , like sometimes, when a user goes from one page to
another page, you don't want to immediately switch it because it's a bit Chiron
to like see a blank screen for a split second and see things kind of fill up.

And. It's just like, it's not very pleasant. it might be easier to wait a little
bit, , for the user so that it's not as Jerin, but the react program and the
model kind of, not just you two always express changes as like, what should be
on the screen at this moment. And so it's, it doesn't really give you any
control over time.

And so you end up flushing changes as soon as they happen and does not always
the best experience. And this is also related to animations, like sometimes. You
click on something, you want to see something different, but you want to like
the previous thing to kind of animate gracefully before you transition but,
because the react model is like, if this show this, otherwise show that, then it
has to kind of jump and implement an animations is a bit annoying and it doesn't
match the paradigm exactly.

So I think that's like the next stage of react is just giving it more control
over time and maybe not even necessarily given the developer more control, but,
being more considerate of when we show things on the screen and why and how does
that, match the human computer interaction research that shows us that.

So in too many things, like too many things, flashing is bad. Like you want to
kind of batch them together and, you want , try to use animations where
appropriate. And, how do we make the library, kinda still keep the declarative
paradigm? but. Operate on time in a way that matches how humans perceive time
and how to make them like have a nice experience using their product. And so
that's what this like work on concurrency and react is all about.

**Michaela:** [01:03:17] Okay. Yeah, it sounds really exciting and, and it also
answers one of the questions people wanted me to ask you, which is when not to
use react. So yeah, your answer has been very insightful. That actually brings
us to the end of the show.

I really want to thank you for taking the time to talking with me about so many
different topics and sharing your ideas and your thoughts. Dan, thank you so
much for being on my show.

**Dan:** [01:03:41] Thank you for having me here. you asked really good
questions, so I appreciate that. Yeah, that was a, that was a really nice
interview.

**Michaela:** [01:03:47] Yeah. Thank you. Thank you so much. Bye. Bye.
