---
episode: "Transcript Episode 15 Peter Pezaris"
permalink: /episode-15-successful-dev-tooling-peter-pezaris
status: publish
type: transcript
---

**Michaela:** [00:00:00] Hello and welcome to the Software Engineering Unlocked
Podcast. I'm your host, Doctor McKayla, and today I have the pleasure to talk to
Peter Pezaris. Peter is the co-founder and CEO of CodeStream, a tool that helps
developers to communicate and collaborate easier and more productively. Before
starting his new adventure two years ago, Peter already started several other
successful companies.

Even though Peter is the CEO, he is still writing code and ensures that the
system is involving in the right direction. The newest path is going into a code
review direction, which is super, super interesting to me. Well, talking about
code reviews, did you know that I'm giving remote Code review workshops?

Yeah! In those workshops, I'm helping engineers get the most out of their code
review practices because code reviews can either be a teams superpower or a
teams expensive bottlenecks. So if that sounds interesting to you, head over to
michaelagreiler.com/workshops I'm also going to link that in the show notes and
have a look at my code workshops and also all of the articles I have written
about code reviews over the last few years.

Well, if you're not wondering what qualifies me to talk about code reviews, I
work with all major product teams at Microsoft such as Office, Windows or Visual
Studio, to help them get the most out of their code review practices. I also led
several large scale studies on code reviews, and I've been part of the team that
is responsible for Microsofts internal code review tool called CodeFlow. So
yeah, I have quite some experience that I really love to share with the whole
world, and so I hope that you consider booking a code review workshop with me,
but yeah, let's go back to Peter. Peter, thank you for joining my show. I'm
really, really excited that you are here.

**Peter:** [00:01:43] Thanks for having me. I'm excited to be here as well.

**Michaela:** [00:01:45] Yeah, I'm also really excited. Peter, I want to start
at the beginning by learning about your journey. I saw that, you have a Bachelor
Degree in Computer science and from your work history I started, you actually
didn't really start out building software systems, but you really started out
building actual companies.

So what fascinates you about entrepreneurship and how did you get started on
your journey? How did you build your first company?

**Peter:** [00:02:07] I've always been fascinated about being a business owner
and being a CEO. I think even when I was in high school, before I thought about
what career I was going to embark on, my friends and I always used to talk about
what business we're going to own some day.

I had the good fortune of attending Carnegie Mellon university at which I met my
business partners who over beers one night decided that we wanted to start a
company on our own. So we were all working on Wall Dtreet at the time at various
financial institutions, and we were drinking beers and talking about Bill Gates
and how much money he had.

And I guess there was an article that we read that said that he had to spend $3
million a day every day in order to spend his wealth by the time he died. And
then we decided that rather than talking about him and his wealth, why don't we
talk about us and our wealth? And so that was really the genesis behind becoming
an entrepreneur.

And we started working on projects, nights and weekends, while we still had our
daytime jobs. And then once our first business really started to take off, we
had to choose between working full time on Wall Street or working for full time
for ourselves. And eventually we made the choice to work full time on our first
business.

And from then, uh, it's just been an awesome, awesome ride because I've had a
fantastic time, be able to work with those same guys through four different
businesses now over the last 25 years.

**Michaela:** [00:03:40] Oh, wow! And so somehow a dream of wealth and money.
Right? Is that also what you achieved? Is that, did you achieve that?

**Peter:** [00:03:48] Well, we have had good successes over the years. Uh,
although at the time that was our motivating factor. You know, I think a lot of
young people when they're first entering to the workforce, they, um, they want
to make money, and that's a reasonable thing to do. Um, but for us it was, it
turned into more than that because as we started our businesses and once we
started making money and after we sold the first business, I didn't understand
at the time what would be an immense sense of satisfaction just having built
something of substance, something that was valuable. Uh, it gave me the most
enormous sense of pride, and it's something that I identify with very closely to
this day. You know, I am an entrepreneur. It's part of who I am.

**Michaela:** [00:04:35] Yeah. I find it really interesting because I just
started my entrepreneur journey very, very recently.
It's only a few months old and the motivations are completely different, right.
So I'm thinking about having an impact.
Being my own boss, deciding what I'm going to work on, flexibility and all that.
I, well, also what you said at the end, right? So, it's about building something
that lasts, and if you're looking back, you say, well, I did that.
I've done that right? So, yeah, I think there is some overlap, but let's talk a
little bit more about the startup that you're currently working on. It's called
CodeStream, and it's a collaboration software for software developers. So
actually it's a really interesting tool, as I said at the beginning, because now
you're pivoting a little bit, or you're adding functionality for code reviews,
and if I have to describe CodeStream as it is right now, it's a software that
allows users to write comments about the software, right there in the IDE. Is
that, is that a good way how to describe your company, or how would you phrase
it?

**Peter:** [00:05:43] Yeah. So we're develop developing something that we call a
developer collaboration platform.

And there are a number of different pieces to this, but you can think about it
as doing a series of features and products that enable more real time and more
rich interaction between developers as they're writing code. And the way that I
often explain this to people who are unfamiliar with our product is by using an
analogy from Google Docs.

We're all familiar with the awesome collaborative features of Google docs. And
one of the things that makes it so great, such a great product, is that if you
and I are writing the same document, we're both collaborating on a document. If
I have anything that I want to talk about with you, uh, I can just select one of
the sentences. And then type my comment, whether it's making a suggestion for
how to edit it, whether it's pointing out a typo and you as the recipient of
that message will know exactly what I'm talking about because it's hyper
contextual. Well, software engineers to date don't have that capability to
collaborate within their source tree.

And instead, because most developers live in their IDE where they write code all
day and today's IDE's don't have that capability. So that's how we started with
CodeStream. Just a very simple user interaction where you can just select any
code directly in your editor and type of comment on that. And that comment gets
shared with your teammates.

So that was the first feature that we built. And since then we've built all
kinds of different user experiences that are developers specific, but they all
center around connecting you with your teammates and allows for realtime
collaboration around source code.

**Michaela:** [00:07:31] Yeah. Yeah. So what I really liked when I worked with
your system, what I really liked was that you have some ground truth, right?

So you can select a piece of code and then this snippet is actually sent over to
the other party, to the person that you are talking about it, and they really
know what you're talking about. So this is something that I liked very, very
much. Um, but what I was also thinking about, especially when we are talking
about communications is Slack.
Slack for example, was several years ago, it was... It conquered the business
communications, right? So it was like boom, and suddenly everything, and
everybody was on Slack and they were so happy that they find an alternative to
the never ending emails, right? But now, over the last few years ago, I saw a
shift.
People are starting to get overwhelmed by the amount of messages that are now
happening in tools like Slack or Microsoft teams, or you know, all these real
time communications. And so my question is, how does CodeStream fit into this
evolution of online communication? What's your role? How do you see your role as
CodeStream in that space?

**Peter:** [00:08:40] Yeah, that's a fascinating question. So we have a
customer, in fact, we just spoke to him yesterday and he has the following
challenge with, I think this pain is felt by a lot of development teams today.
He says that the conversation around the source code is fragmented. That when a
developer asks a question about, for example, how a chunk of code works, what
they often do is they copy and paste that chunk of code into Slack because Slack
is the realtime communication tool that they use for back and forth, you know,
quick answers to questions. But if they're doing work on a particular bug or a
particular feature, well that conversation often happens in Jira. And then when
there's time for code review, well, that conversation about the code happens in
Github and then if there's customer feedback, the conversation happens in yet
another tool.

So all of these different systems are somehow housing different chunks of
conversation, but they're all related in some way to your source code and the
state transitions that your source code goes through as you make commits and
changes. So CodeStream's role in all of this is rather than providing yet one
more place to go check for conversations, our role is to connect all of those
existing conversations that are happening across all those different systems and
provide users the ability to connect those existing conversations to the
relevant parts of the code base.

And I'll give you a quick example. Instead of copying and pasting code from your
editor into Slack to ask a question about it. Well, with CodeStream, you can
type that question directly or in your IDE, and it will post that question to
Slack so your teammates can still reply on Slack the way that they're normally
used to doing, but now because CodeStream knows what code you're talking about,
that conversation thread will be visible inside of your IDE, not only for you,
but for anybody that looks at that code, whether it's today, tomorrow, or three
years from now, after that code has changed and merged. So CodeStreams unique
capability is to be able to tie artifacts, whether it's another conversation,
another system. It's a Jira ticket, it's a commit ID. It's a PR to tie all this
activity that's related to your code, back to the relevant portions of your code
base that those things reference, and that provides the correct context for when
you look at that code down the road.

**Michaela:** [00:11:19] Yeah, that sounds really interesting. In my
introduction I said, you are still hands on writing code, but as the CEO, how
closely are you really involved with the engineering activities?

**Peter:** [00:11:30] Um, that's a great question. So, and I'm, I'm, the reason
I'm hesitating is because I, I think different people on my team would answer
this differently.

Um, it's a very delicate role to play. If you're a CEO who's writing code, I
like to tell the team, or I like to present myself as essentially having two
jobs. During the day, most days I'm performing the functions that a CEO would
typically do. I'm talking to investors, I'm dealing with team issues, the
financing, the customer communications, uh, interfacing with the marketing team
and all different aspects of the business.

And that's pretty much a full time job. Uh, but because I love what I'm doing so
much, I like to say that I have a second full time job. And so most nights, uh,
when all of that activity has died down a little bit, I have some time. Some
quiet time to write some code. And lately that's actually been quite a lot of
time, uh, because we're super excited about some new features that we're
building out and so I've just been, you know, coding into the wee hours of the
morning because I, I just really love doing it.

**Michaela:** [00:12:32] Yeah. Cool. So how big is your company? How many people
are working on CodeStream in general, and how big is the engineering team?

**Peter:** [00:12:40] We have 13 employees in total, and eight of them are on
the engineering team.

**Michaela:** [00:12:45] Okay. So eight of them are in the engineering team. And
does that include you, Peter?

**Peter:** [00:12:49] It does. And so, uh, I guess I could be included on both
sides, but it's, you know, 13 people in total. And one of the things I try
really hard to do is when I put on my developer's hat, I take off my CEO hat.
Because I think it's important for me not to dictate to the rest of the team
that like I'm right, because I'm the CEO.

I think for a lot of founders who are still contributing code, that's a very,
I've mentioned a delicate balance, and so I try very hard to just. Be a regular
developer, equal to everybody else on the team, uh, and, and to not ever rely on
my title in order to make a decision go my way.

**Michaela:** [00:13:31] You overrule everybody, right?

By saying, I'm the CEO and these are actually a CTO. Do you have like a CTO role
as

**Peter:** [00:13:40] well? We do not, but we're actively recruiting. So if this
company sounds interesting to anybody where, uh, please send your application.
We've got it listed on our website.

**Michaela:** [00:13:50] Okay. So what roles do you have among those eight
engineers?

What, what roles are there?

**Peter:** [00:13:57] Uh, I believe very strongly in a flat development
organization and me being equal to everybody else as part of that, um, we do
have developers who have particular strengths in certain aptitudes in terms of
what they're good at doing. So we like to assign work based on those strengths.

For example, uh, some of the engineers are particularly good at UI. Uh, and
others are particularly good at backend or database systems. So we definitely
have a, a natural tendency to assign work based on those strengths. But we work
very hard to, uh, encourage people to go a little bit outside their comfort zone
to support and encourage full stack development.

And so what we like to say is that whatever, would ever portion of the stack
that you're most comfortable, we want you to be regularly going at least one
stack higher and at least one stack lower. So at the very least, you learn how
your code impacts and interfaces with other areas of the code base, but
constantly encouraging developers to move up and down the stack so they can get
exposure to more technologies, more experiences, and just a greater
understanding of the entire code base.

**Michaela:** [00:15:09] Yeah, that sounds really, that sounds really good. I
think it shapes the way you develop your code. If you see. As you said, if
you're seeing how your code is interfacing with something else, how it's used,
and actually also the problems that your code might create on a higher level or
on a lower level or something like that.

So another question that I have for you is, do you have like testers in your
organizations? Do you have like do, do automated tests and we have like manual
tests? How does testing work at CodeStream?

**Peter:** [00:15:40] As we talked about earlier on the podcast, I, I've run a
engineering team for the last 25 years and over the years we've tried a number
of different approaches when it comes to testing and there are plus and minuses
to all those different approaches.

The one that I'm most fond of, although my teammates will disagree with me, the
one that I'm most fond of is one in which there is not a separate QA team, but
rather engineers are responsible for testing each other's work. I find that that
often produces the best results and the highest quality code, uh, rather than
relying on a separate QA team.

**Michaela:** [00:16:20] So the internees are supposed to write automated tests
and also do a manual testing? Is that what's happening?

**Peter:** [00:16:27] That's right.

**Michaela:** [00:16:28] And what about operations? Are the engineers also
responsible for the operations of your system?

**Peter:** [00:16:32] Uh, one of the, one of our engineers, uh, handles 95% of
our operations, uh, and has over the years because he's been one of my partners
that I've worked with for 25 years. Although his role has definitely changed.
Um, I remember, I'll tell a fun story about our first business when we were
scaling it up. We had, we ended up with thousands of nodes, you know, computers
that we were managing ourselves in data centers across the country. And he came
to me one day and asked me, He said, "We need to buy some new power strips for
the data center". I said, "Sure, buy some power strips". And he said, "Well,
they're kind of expensive". And I said, "Okay, how much are they?" They said,
"Well, these ones are $650 and these ones are $700 and I need to know which one
to buy". And I said, "I don't care. It's 150" and he says, "No, they are $650
each".

And I said, "Well, wait a second. First of all, how many do we need? And second
of all, what is a $650 power strip?" Like, I don't understand how robust could
it possibly be. And at the time, data centers were doing IP addressable power
scripts. So you could literally tell net into the power strip and a little micro
computer on it that could tell you what wattage was being drawn by each outlet,
you could turn each one on and off by sending a command over an IP request.

**Michaela:** [00:17:54]: The start of IOT, right?

**Peter:** [00:17:56] Yeah, it was. It was! But what was crazy is that at the
time we were building a fantasy sports business, right? This is a sports
industry, and I said. The last thing in the world I feel I need to be an expert
on is the IOT of power strips and finding the best value.

So thank goodness that Amazon and Google and Microsoft have taken a lot of that
headache away from us entrepreneurs, and now, you know, they worry about the
data centers and we just rent space from them. It makes our lives a lot easier.

**Michaela:** [00:18:31] Yeah. And it's so true and it's so different right now.
I also remember when I was still in university and had our server, I mean it
wasn't production server or something, right?

But so we had our little website on it and our projects and things like that
running on it. And you had it right under your desk and you were always totally
terrified that something, or somebody will hack into the system or you know that
something will happen to it right in here. Yeah. So that sounds cool.

Um, so I want to understand a little bit more about your software development
practices, because in your 25 years, you probably have seen a lot of different
things and you have tons of experience. I don't want to put waterfall into your
mouth or something like that, but 25 years ago, waterfall, most of the things,
so even when I was at university studying, people were still talking about
waterfall and waterfall processes. And I can imagine that this was also
something that happened in some of your first startups, so that you really had,
like you first had your requirement phase, and then you had the implementation,
and then you weren't testing it only after you finished writing every code.

So this was a very traditional waterfall model. So is that something that, um,
was a thing in one of your companies and how did that progress over the years?
How did that software development change? Um, well, I think this are probably
too many questions in one, but I'm looking forward to your answer.

**Peter:** [00:19:59] Um, well, I'll, I'll talk a little bit to the history and
then where we are today. Um. So we definitely had more of a waterfall process,
and it was before, you know, the word agile was ever really used. Uh, so we
didn't know that we weren't agile because it was just sort of the way that, um,
we wrote software.

But actually our first business didn't allow for a traditional waterfall because
we had such hard deadlines because it was a. Um, uh, sports-related product. You
know, the NFL is going to start on September 6th, whether your software is ready
or not. You know, they're very, very hard deadlines when you work in the sports
industry and there are probably 20 deadlines a year that you have to keep to.

And so that keeps your dev cycle short. You don't have a long time for a long
planning cycle. And then a big implementation phase and then a giant rollout.
You're just constantly releasing software. So it's sort of agile that we didn't
call it that back then. It forced us into that type of mode. But our second
business was more of a waterfall approach. And this is sort of in the, in the
early 2000's and one of the biggest mistakes I ever made as an entrepreneur is
that we did this massive redesign of the website without doing sufficient
testing and without doing a gradual rollout. And so we did this months long
rework of everything. And we were so happy with that, what had come out, we were
certain that it was gonna be loved by our customers. And what we found out was
that, although they didn't object to it and they kind of like the new design, it
had some fundamental flaws in terms of how it impacted our growth metrics. And
it did real damage to our overall business.

And it took us months to recover from it. I'm not sure ever we ever did fully
recover. And that made me realize that I never want to do that again. Um, and so
now, now we, we have much, much shorter dev cycles for our business. Uh, but
what's really interesting is that as part of my job, I talk to customers all the
time. And since we're a dev tools company, I talked to them about their dev
process. And so we ask these types of questions, uh, to at least 10 customers
every week. And we amass all the results in a, in a big database. And it's
incredible. Even today, hearing the diversity of different types of processes.
There's one customer at one extreme, who has two engineers and they pushed to
production 20 times a day.

**Michaela:** [00:22:34] Oh, wow!

**Peter:** [00:22:36] Basically every little micro change goes through this, you
know, continuous integration, continuous deployment cycle, and they're just
constantly releasing new stuff to production, like in tiny little chunks

**Michaela:** [00:22:38] and how many people are using that system?

**Peter:** [00:22:40] Uh, thousands, thousands, and they charge a lot of money
for their system per user.

So they're generating an amount of revenue, a good amount of revenue from just
having a, a small engineering team. Uh, the other end of the spectrum, some
larger and older companies are still doing sort of quarterly giant releases,
which, you know, we would referred to as a waterfall dev cycle. And there, they
all know that they're trying to change the corporate culture, but it's really
difficult to do that.

**Michaela:** [00:23:11] Yeah. There have been several studies on how frequent
releases just increased the quality of your software system, and I think it has
a lot to do with the immediate feedback that you have and with the ability that
you gain from the frequent releases that if something goes wrong, you can
actually react. So you know where something happened and it happened, you know,
within the last code changes that you did, and if you are not merging very
often, right? Let's say you're merging only once a month or something, then
there are weeks that are passing by and then you cannot reliably say any more
when the problem originated from. So, by frequently merging, you can find the
root cause much critical.

Well at CodeStream now you say you're more agile, but what does it mean? How
often are you releasing? How often are you pushing the button and saying, "well,
let's go push it into production"?

**Peter:** [00:24:04] Um, well, that's changed for us. Uh, actually very
recently. Um, as you mentioned earlier, we're working on a new product, which is
a code review product.

And our code review review product is unique in that it's a much lighter weight
solution than existing solutions that require you to sort of jump between your
IDE over to a website, go check your email for a notification back to the IDE
interface with Git on the command line. Sometimes. Um, so our code reviews are
all-in editor. They're super lightweight. And in that it takes one button to
request a code review. And you can do that regardless of the state of your repo.
Even if you have code that's not committed, uh, or if you've got code that that
is but isn't pushed, and you can get feedback from your teammates at any time.
And they do the review also within their editor without having to use a bunch of
different tools.

So it aims to streamline the process. And of course. We are the first users of
this product. You know, we're building the product, but we're also using it. And
it has dramatically changed the frequency with which we are branching and
merging, because it's just so easy now to get feedback from each other.

Uh, it's in real time. And I, I don't have the stats yet cause we haven't pulled
them, but I, myself am probably landing code three or four or five times a day,
and that's, uh, at least an order of magnitude faster than it used to happen.

**Michaela:** [00:25:34] And what did you use before to do the code reviews?

**Peter:** [00:25:37] Gthub, yeah. And that, and what we found was that because
it was a more formal process, we would wait until the end of the PR and, and
the, and the problem with that is that it really encourages you to think in the
mindset of, I have to wait until I'm done in order to get a review. So, and as
engineers, we're often never really satisfied with something being done. There's
always like one more change and one more thing and one more thing. And so it
promotes this sort of activity, at least it did for our team, that we would have
these branches that we thought were only gonna live for a couple of days, and
then they ended up living for a couple of weeks because we're not quite ready to
have other people look at it yet.

And we will be like, "Eh, I can add that one more thing", or "Maybe this feature
is related enough that I'm going to put that on this branch too". Um, and
because of that, it really extended our release cycles.

**Michaela:** [00:26:29] Yeah. So especially if you are a company that develops
software for developers, so developer tooling, I think it's a really easy to dog
food, your own software, your own product.

And well, as you said, if you are a sports company, it's a little bit harder.
Right? But, um, have you seen also some drawbacks of dogfooding because also
means that you're only one company, right? So you're having one development
style, you're having one culture. So do you think that it can also make you a
little bit, um, blind sighted or blind for what's, um, how people outside would
be using your software?

**Peter:** [00:27:06] That's always something that you have to keep in mind
because whenever you build a tool, unless you build a very opinionated tool that
tells everybody exactly what the, which way to do it, then ultimately, your
customers are gonna use the tool in ways you had never envisioned. And I think
there's also a myopia that people develop that they assume everybody else is
like them, which you just pointed out.

And that's something that you have to really, really work hard to, to remember
and remind yourself that you're not the only user. There is one other technical
challenge that we face. It's a minor one, but it's something that we have to
deal with, which is that when we're dogfooding our own software, we're often
doing it in a development environment.

And yet we're doing it with like real... We're really using the tool, right? So
we don't want to have to switch between development and production because then
we lose the history of what we're working on. And yet we want to use production
because you know, it's a production usage. So that's something that we, we
haven't really come up with a great solution yet, sort of how to switch back and
forth between the two, because every time we switch, it's like we lose half of
our content.

**Michaela:** [00:28:14] So how do you do it?

**Peter:** [00:28:15] Um, we lose half our content, which is, which is not, um.
Uh, every like, it's when, when we are working on a pretty big project, like
this code review thing is a pretty big project for us. And so we'll switch to
the development environment to dog food it because we want to use that there.

Uh, but for most features we can sort of wait until it hits production to start
using it and we turn it on with a feature flag for us first and that type of
thing. Uh, but for code reviews, it was a big enough project that nobody else
has tried it yet, except for us. Uh, although we are excited that next week
we'll have our first beta customers, uh, giving it a try. Um, and then we'll
switch back to using production.

**Michaela:** [00:28:57] So CodeStream actually works with many different IDEs.
So for example, it works with Visual Studio Anthem and the JetBrains IDEs, and
you also have different messaging systems that you're integrating with different
issue trackers. So there are so many integration points and so many different
environments that you have to work with.

So I was wondering how much of the code base is actually, you know, universal
across all of those different environments and how much of the codebase do you
have to customize to work and be perfect for those environments?

**Peter:** [00:29:29] Yeah. Um, so we, we worked hard to... because we knew that
in order to be successful that, you know, the development culture right now is
sort of a bring your own tools type of culture. It's rare that we talk to a
customer where they've dictated the tool set to their employees, and because of
that, there are some 16 or 18 different editors that are in pretty good use
today. Uh, there are, as you mentioned, a number of issue trackers, and so we
set out to write our software in such a way that we didn't have to build a
custom solution for each one of those things.

And that meant spending a lot of extra work upfront to build a generic service
that can then have sort of plugin components to talk to the individual different
issue trackers or messaging systems, for example. Uh, and so that required quite
a bit more work than we. Would have had to undergo to support one of them.

Uh, but now that we're there, it's pretty straightforward for us to support
additional types of integrations.

**Michaela:** [00:30:31] Okay. So I worked for the team that was responsible for
Microsoft internal code review tool called CodeFlow. And from that experience, I
know that, for example, just making sure that the comments are in the right
place, even though you know, there are changes to the, to the code, and the new
versions of the code is a pretty extensive work, and I can imagine that you have
different IDEs and different issue trackers, it's becoming even more
complicated. So I'm wondering how do you test that the things are appearing at
the right place? For example, how do you test that things are working smoothly,
especially if you have so many integration points and for example, IDEs and
developer toolings have a lot of frequent releases. So how do you make sure that
everything is perfect? Everything is working fine? How do you test that?

**Peter:** [00:31:20] Sure. Um, the one commonality we have among all of our
customers is that everybody's using Git and thank goodness. Um, we, we don't
support a subversion or per force. Um, and I guess there, there are some
customers out there using those tools, uh, but Git as something like 94% of the
market by now. And so that makes it easier for us, uh, to make that decision to
only support Git at this time. Maybe someday there'll be another version control
system that we will support cause it'll have enough of a customer base or an
important enough customer, but that's simplifies things pretty dramatically for
us because the most complicated things that we do are exactly what you just
mentioned. You know, tracking different versions and where this chunk of code
ended up post-merge and, and those types of things.

So supporting an additional issue tracker, for example, like Jira versus Trello.
Uh, versus Github issues. That's relatively straightforward. Each one of those
services has a set of published API's. And they're all pretty similar. Um, so
it's really just building the glue software. Uh, the one challenge that we do
run into is in the IDEs, because IDEs are under pretty rapid development today,
especially with their extension API's.

And we rely heavily on those extension APIs. And so we've built essentially a
layer that sits on top of the different editor, extension APIs, that gives us a
common set of primitives that we can build against. And so we just have to
ensure that with every release of a new API or a new IDE API, uh, that it
continues to work.

And that's where we spend a pretty significant amount of our QA resources.

**Michaela:** [00:33:04] Okay. Yeah, I can imagine. And so what does the tech
stack look like at CodeStream? What are the languages that you, are you saying,
what are the technologies that you're using?

**Peter:** [00:33:13] We built the software using TypeScript whenever possible.

So the front end is built with React. And essentially our architecture on the
client side is a little bit more complicated than it needs to be, but it allows
us to support different IDEs, and it's a three tier architecture on the client
side that has the front end, the presentation layer in React and TypeScript.

Then we have a middle glue layer, which is essentially our API layer that
interfaces with the editors APIs, things like what's the currently selected
file, what range of selecting in their editor. It allows us to open up new files
in the editor and those types of things. Also, importantly, it allows us to, uh,
invoke a web view within the editor, and that's how we present our React front
end. So that's the middle layer, which is the IDE extension. And then there's a
little demon or an agent that runs on your computer, which is an LSP server. And
that's also written in TypeScript. So on the client, the top and the highest,
the React component, and the LSP agent are both written in TypeScript and
they're both identical across every IDE.

We support. And then in order to support an additional IDE, we just have to
write that little middle glue layer that talks to the editor itself. And so that
that's how our clients work. And then they talk via HTTPS to our backend, which
is an API server written in TypeScript using Node. And then it talks to a Mongo
backend and we run that in the cloud in AWS, or we also have an on-prem
installation option for customers that they can run in a Docker container.

So we provide them the image and you can manage it yourself behind your
firewall.

**Michaela:** [00:34:54] Yeah. Very cool. So now that you described a tech
stack, what I want to know is, did the tech stack change over time, or did you
have the same tech stack for the different companies? I mean, probably not
because you're going back 25 years, but let's say for the last two companies
that you build, did you have the same tech stack or did you change frequently
and if there was a change, why did you change it?

**Peter:** [00:35:19] Well, it's changed even for this company. We started out
writing just one solution for one editor. Uh, and then we sort of quickly
realized that we have to, you know, change it in order to support a number of
different editors. So we started out just writing plain vanilla JavaScript and
only targeting the Atom editor because a couple of years ago that was more
popular than it is today.

Um, so we moved from JavaScript to TypeScript, which I initially provided, uh, a
little bit of resistance to, um, but I'm a convert. I like TypeScript now.
That's, I think it's, uh, it was a good move for us to make. Um, but the tech
stack has been very different for every company that we've started. The first
company, uh, the product was written in Perl.

And, uh, you know, that's not a language that's in common use today. And it was
a... You know, as a mod Perl website running on a patchy, um, with a, mySQL
database and, uh, you know, the front end was like hard coded HTML and, uh, CSS
templates. Yeah.

**Michaela:** [00:36:24] And one was the text tag off to company before.

**Peter:** [00:36:27] So Glip was our previous company, and that was written
using vanilla JavaScript using the backbone framework.

Backbone isn't super popular today, but it was sort of a competitor to what
people would choose, React or Angular over backbone today. Um, but backbone
service pretty well. Um, and that's actually still in use in production today.
There are millions of paying customers using Glip today using that same client
software that we wrote back then.

It was a, very, very similar to Slack in terms of its capabilities as a team.
Communications tool, uh, built as a single page app that's delivered over the
web. Either you could use it in a web browser or a, an Electron app on your
desktop.

**Michaela:** [00:37:11] So now that you worked with different engineers and
different companies, and we're always in a leading role somehow.

Um, so what have you learned about collaboration? How do you make sure that
people are working well with each other? That they are, you know, there is a
good engineering culture, a good team culture in the engineering team.

**Peter:** [00:37:32] Well, the first thing I would say is openness and
transparency, um, is if you have good communication, not just about the work
that you're doing, but also about other things, uh, about job satisfaction,
about your personal life. Um, that means a lot. As I mentioned earlier, I've had
the good fortune of working with the same senior management team for 25 years.
So by now, these people are not only my business partners, but they're my best
friends. You know, we, we were at each other's weddings and each other's best
men. And you know, we, we baptize each other's children.

And that, I think, gives our whole company this culture of being part of
something, but being part of a family that's more than just writing code and
finishing specs. So what I have always done, and I think it served us well, is
to promote the social aspect of working with somebody. And that means going out
to dinner with each other, having each other over for barbecues and having a
relationship outside of the office, and that, I find opens up conversations so
that you can see who's happy, who's unhappy, and how you can improve that, uh,
and make sure it's consistent over time.

**Michaela:** [00:38:46] Yeah. So this makes me a little bit, think about remote
companies, I don't even know is a CodeStream alittle bit remote?

Do you have like remote positions or you're completely colocated? Um, but yeah.
What, what does this mean, um, for companies that are remote? Because what
you're telling me is face to face connection, right? It's really a moment where
you can touch it under, right. Very in the same space, in the same country, in
the same city, in the same office.

Um, so have you thought about how those things can be transferred to remote
settings?

**Peter:** [00:39:20] Yeah, that's a challenge and it's been a challenge for us
because we have managed primarily remote teams over those years. Um, you know,
Dave, one of my business partners, he's our head of product. He and I haven't
lived in... we've been business partners for over 20 years, but we haven't lived
in the same city for any appreciable time.

Like for I think the only two years out of those 20 plus, and I work very
closely with Dave and now we rely heavily on Zoom, on video conferencing on
tools like Slack that allow for remote collaboration. And for development work.
You know, we're eating our own dog food by using CodeStream. So I think that's
incredibly important that we can use the tools that allow us to build tools that
will help other remote teams, but also we are helped by them, not only our own
tools, but by other tools like that, that doesn't really address the social
aspect.

And so we generally speaking, have to travel in order to have that. Um, I have
not, I've tried, but I have not yet found a good remote socializing work
solution. right? We've tried to do like happy hours where like, I'll open a beer
and you open a beer at the same time over a video chat, that doesn't tend to
work for us.

I'm not sure if it works for any companies, but it doesn't work for us.

**Michaela:** [00:40:39] So one of your cornerstones is really having onsite
events where the whole company meets and does something nice together, or how
does it work?

**Peter:** [00:40:47] I think that the money that we save by not having offices,
you know, we spend very little money on actual office space.

There are a couple of guys that don't have enough space to work from home. So,
uh, they end up in an office. But other than that, we, we save money on, uh, on
that expense. And we invested it in travel. So we do see each other pretty
frequently as a big group. We do that around once every six months or so, but we
also frequently are just flying to locations, either for a trade show or a
conference or a customer meeting, and we tend to congregate in groups of three
or four or five.

And whenever we do that, it's like assumed that we'll have the meetings during
the day and then we'll socialize at night. You know, we don't even have to ask
each other. We just sort of know that that's going to happen and that's a good
way for us to stay connected as well.

**Michaela:** [00:41:36] Yeah, I can imagine. So I want to talk about something
a little bit different here.

It came to my mind when you were talking about your system and the architecture
and I was like, Oh, I would really like to see it. I would like to, you know,
dig into code and see how it's done. And um, what I heard is that you're
actually open sourcing part of your system. Is that true? And if it's true, why
are you doing that?

**Peter:** [00:41:59] That is true. And not just parts of our system. We're open
sourcing the whole thing. Basically everything not related to billing and
payments. So you'll be able to see this source code on the front end, the
backend, any middle layers, and in the on prem installation that you'll, you'll
get. You can build it from source if you'd like to.

So we're doing that for a couple of reasons. Uh, one is that we think it's the
trend that even commercial enterprises are increasingly making their source code
available for other people to either learn from, to contribute to or to raise
issues on. And we think that's important, especially being a code collaboration
platform.

We're really looking forward to and excited by the concept of people being able
to ask questions about the CodeStream and source code using CodeStream itself.
Uh, cause that'll be a great way for us to be able to answer questions about how
our own code works to potential contributors. And the second reason that we're
doing it is one of transparency.

Um, oftentimes when you trust, especially something as valuable as your source
code to a third party SAAS provider, there is a very large issue of trust there.
Um, and CodeStream is not yell yet a well known brand in the same way that Slack
or GitHub is. And so a customer might feel a lot more comfortable cutting and
pasting or copying and pasting a code snippet into Slack.

Um, but we have to earn their trust in order for them to comment on it using
CodeStream. And one of the ways that we're doing that is by open sourcing our
software so they can audit it at any time and knowing that we're not doing
anything malicious with their data.

**Michaela:** [00:43:43] That's super smart. That's I think, a very, very good
strategy because, well, what came to my mind was that your users are developers,
right?

And so developers are curious and they will definitely ask the question like,
what is actually sending over? How much does CodeStream see about myself? Their
system. And what's actually going on here. What happens beneath the surface? And
by open-sourcing it people, you know, you're circumventing that people can just
look at the code, can go there and see what's actually really going on.

And I think that's a very smart move to build trust. So yeah. So you mentioned a
little bit earlier that you're looking for a CTO right now. So my question is
how do you hire at a startup and what do you expect from a CTO? For example.

**Peter:** [00:44:31] Yeah. Um, it's, it's, it's a challenge. Um, I've had, I've
had a number of very capable technical leaders that I've had the good pleasure
of working with over the years, and the most successful of them have been ones
who can, uh, deeply embrace the startup culture. Um, what we won't be doing for
this next role is hiring somebody from a big organization that knows how to
schedule a meeting and put together budgets and interface with the vendors.
That's the wrong set of qualities. We have to find somebody who is hungry, um,
wants to get their hands dirty and can lead by example.

And I find that it's those engineers that can rise up into the more management,
uh, responsibilities of being a tech leader at a startup and can be more
successful doing it. So that's our primary objective, is finding an employee who
we have confidence in, can lead us from an engineering perspective and earn the
trust of the rest of the engineering team, uh, and lead us where we need to go.

Um. And so that's really provides the framework in terms of the mechanics of how
we're going to do it. Uh, we have, uh, our company was part of Y Combinator a
couple of years ago and Y Combinator is involved with so many different
companies, that hiring is often the most critical need of all of their portfolio
companies.

So they've got a set of great resources that can help companies like us, uh,
hire for different positions, including one custom solution that they built for
themselves, which anybody who's interested in working at a Y Combinator funded
startup can go apply. It's called Work at a Startup. That's the name of the
product.

And it's a hiring platform that anybody can apply to. And you can see a list of
all the YC companies that are hiring and you can apply to work at them.

**Michaela:** [00:46:26] Okay. And so do YC Combinator gives you access to the
recruit list and access to the talent pool or only access to the talent pool. So
how does the help that you just described really look like?

**Peter:** [00:46:38] Yeah, all of the above. So sometimes they'll help you. So
each YC company like us has one or more partners that we work with that are YC
employees. Um, so the partner might help you by recommending somebody specific
because they have a very strong network of relationships of engineering leaders.
Um, they may have a, another YC company that's not doing so well that you could
acquire the company and bring over the engineering team, and that might be one
or two or three or five engineers.

So that happens pretty frequently as well. And they give you access to those
tools, um, and inside access to those tools, including, you know, when they
introduce you to a particular recruiter, for example, being a YC company, that
recruiter is motivated to help you perhaps a little bit more than they would a
regular company because they want to develop a stronger YC relationship because
YC has become such a powerful force within the startup community that a lot of
people just want to work at YC companies.

**Michaela:** [00:47:43] So one of the things that I wanted to talk with you,
especially because you brought it up, is I want to talk with you about the
funding itself. So how did that work? How did you get out to get some of the
fundings. I mean, you have already a track record of companies that you
successfully started. So somehow I think you had already your foot in the door,
but still, when you had the idea of CodeStream, how did you, you know, how did
you go about getting the funding for that idea?

**Peter:** [00:48:09] So I'll start by saying that until recently I would have
answered you by saying that fundraising is a soul destroying experience. That's
the way it was described to me once, and I think that's accurate. Like it's
really, really hard and it, it messes with your own psyche because I think us
founders often take it too personally, when you hear the word "no".

And the reality is when you're raising money, at least 90% of the time, the
answer is going to be no. And when I was first starting out, I used to take that
personally because I thought that a no meant that they didn't like you enough
and didn't like your company enough. But what I learned is that, most of the
time, the no comes for a very specific reason.

And that investors often have contractual agreements with their limited partners
who provide the funding that they're going to invest in your company. So they
have a contractual agreement to only invest in companies that meet certain
criteria. And that could be geographical criteria, it could be revenue criteria,
it could be that what sector you're in, what type of business you're building.

And it could be a variety of other things. And so a lot of times when you talk
to an investor, it's really just a match banking process. Sort of like pattern
matching, like do the qualities of your company even fit the criteria that I
could possibly invest in? And if it doesn't meet that criteria the answer is
going to be no.

And I used to think that they were just sort of letting us down nicely. You
know, it's finding an excuse not to invest, but oftentimes if the answer is no,
just the answer is no, and they couldn't possibly invest even if they wanted to.
Now, having said that, I, I struggled with fundraising for the vast, vast, vast
majority of my career because it was a very difficult thing to do.

And it is difficult for most founders. Um, Y Combinator changed all that, at
least for us. And I have heard through the grapevine, it changes it for most YC
companies. Just having that badge, that logo, that stamp of approval. Changes
the whole dynamic of the conversation. And there's a whole class of investors
that are out there that are very interested in investing in whichever YC company
they can invest in.

And that makes the conversations a lot easier. And so we've had a relatively
successful fundraising efforts, didn't require a whole lot of work on our part.
We've announced that we've raised five and a half million dollars in a seed
round. And that came almost entirely from YC connections.

**Michaela:** [00:50:48] Okay.

That's really good to know. I mean, I'm a little bit involved in the indie
hacker community. It's a community of entrepreneurs, but it's more bootstrapped
companies. So there are obviously people also looking for funding, especially if
it's the right time. So Y Combinator is definitely something people are looking
into.

Well. So we are sort of at the end of our interview, we're running a little bit
out of time, so I wanted to ask you, is this something that you want to talk
about that we haven't discussed or something that you want to say that you think
would be very valuable for my listeners?

**Peter:** [00:51:23] Well, I imagine that listeners to this podcast are either
interested in dev tools or entrepreneurship or something related to that.

And what I'd like to close with is a word of advice to anybody who's out there
that's interested in entrepreneurship but hasn't taken the plunge yet. And it's
not so much a word of advice, but a word of encouragement. Is that being an
entrepreneur has been the best decision I've ever made in my life.

It provides me unending levels of job satisfaction. It, I can't even describe
how awesome it is to think back and look back at all the lives we've changed,
all the jobs we've created, all the customers that we've impacted in a positive
way and built, to be able to build something from nothing and to do it again and
again and again.

It's the most rewarding thing I've ever done, other than being a dad, um, with
the first book I ever got when I thought about starting my company, yhe first
page described being an entrepreneur and it said, um, "once you start your
company, you're going to become obsessed with it. And every moment you'll think
about your business".

And I actually disagreed with that cause I had never built a business before.
And I said to myself, well, that's exactly the wrong reason, because I want to
build a company so that I only have to work like 20 hours a week, right? And I
can sit back and enjoy life and have a company that feeds me money.

And I'll say that the author of the book was right. That it becomes obsessive,
but in a fantastic way. That you want your company to succeed so much because
you're so connected to it that you'll give it everything you have. So my advice
is, if you're thinking about starting a company, do it. The hardest thing that
any entrepreneur does is start and you can do it.

**Michaela:** [00:53:10] Yeah, that sounds really, um, motivational. It sounds
really good, but because I have you here and you have such a long history of
starting companies, I'm definitely have the, you also had some times that maybe
didn't go so well. What would you say, what advice would you give for people
that you know, starting out and don't get traction and, you know, did they build
the tools?

And I mean, I have many friends in the startup scene and it's not always, you
know, shiny and happy faces. It's often. You know, maybe a little bit soul
crushing as we talked before. Because when you're trying something and you
believe in something and you're building it, especially engineers, you know,
they put in the hours, they put in the work and they are building really cool
tools.

And then maybe, you know, Micah didn't get some rides and nobody comes. What
would you tell them? Because I think it's not always a sign that if nobody uses
your tool that the tool isn't valuable or that the idea isn't good, maybe
something else is lacking. So how can you overcome those difficult times where
you, maybe you're still waiting for your success and it's not coming and it's
not inside.

And when do you think is the right time to say, well, I'm pulling back. I'm
saying "That's it. It's not working, and I'm going back to find a job again".

**Peter:** [00:54:30] Well, one of the things that we learned with our YC
experience is that one of the things that they do there is they bring in a
speakers to talk to you about their successful companies.

So we heard from the founder of Dropbox, we heard from the CTO at Facebook, we
heard from, uh, the founders at Airbnb, and inevitably, and a number of others,
inevitably, they all have a different version of the same story, which is that
they failed and failed and failed and failed and failed until they succeeded.

But when you hear how many times, for example, Airbnb were thinking about
shutting down because they couldn't find any product market fit, until they
finally sort of cracked the code and found out what it was for them to be
successful. It's inspiring in that like, it makes you realize that you're not
the only one.

That's going through it. And YC even has, uh, a name for it now they call it,
you know, you've got the excitement of coming out of YC, you get funded, and
then you got the trough of despair. And so there's this very frequently, this
period of time where you, you're not taking off like a rocket ship.

And you're focusing on a whole bunch of things to try to make your business work
and YC, his advice for that period of time, which I think is really great advice
and advice that we're taking to heart right now, is that when you're in that
grind and trying to find that product market fit, you said do two things and
focus on only two things.

Number one is you should talk to customers, and number two is you should build a
product. And don't do anything else. Um, and that's, that's it. Uh, it means
don't hire people before you're ready. Don't build a board of advisors. Don't go
spend a bunch of money on marketing and things. That's how you're going to solve
your problems.

Just talk to customers and build product. And when you find product market fit,
you will know it because the seams will start falling apart. Your database will
be smoking in production. You know, you'll have too many customers coming in.
You can't handle their billing. You know, you'll know when you have success, but
until you get there, only do those two things.

**Michaela:** [00:56:40] Yeah. Yeah. I think that's really, really good advice.
And I also heard very often that if you're trying something out, you will know
when you reached success, you will know how that looks like, especially if
things failed beforehand. So maybe we close with that one. Um, Peter I would
like to thank you so much for being on the show.

It was really, really good to have you here and that we covered so many
different topics, so thank you. Thank you.

**Peter:** [00:57:07] Thanks very much for having me. It was a pleasure.

**Michaela:** [00:57:09] Yeah, it was really great. Thank you so much. Bye.

**Peter:** [00:57:10] Bye bye!

**Michaela:** [00:57:14] Hey, if you enjoy my show, it would mean the world to
me if you could help me by spreading the word.

There are few things you can do. Send this episode to a friend or spread the
word by a Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn. You can also leave a rating on iTunes. I
heard those go a long way. In any case. Thank you for listening to the Software
Engineering Unlocked podcast. Don't forget to subscribe and I will talk to you
in two weeks.
