---
episode: "Transcript - Episode 23, Angela Andrews"
permalink: /sysadmin-to-solution-architect
status: publish
type: transcript
---

**Michaela:** [00:00:00] Hello, and welcome to the software engineering unlocked
podcast. I'm your host, Dr. McKayla, and today I have the pleasure to talk to
Angela Andrews: a solution architect at RedHat. But before I start, I wanted to
tell you that I have added new dates for my code review workshops. In these
workshops, you learn how to get the most out of code reviews. That means you
learn how to make them fast and effective at the same time. In the workshop I
share with you all my knowledge I gained over the last 10 years. I worked with
engineers at Microsoft, National Instruments, Metro Systems, Wix, Automatic,
Flutter, and many others to make code reviews their super power. I'd love to
also work with you and your team -- so check out my brand new website address:
https://awesomecodereviews.com.

But now back to Angela. Angela worked as a SysAdmin for several years, but
recently transitioned to become a solution architect at Red Hat. Today, she
shares with us why she has so many certificates and what it means to be a
solution architect and her interesting journey within tech. So, I'm super
thrilled to welcome Angela. Angela -- thank you so much for being on my show!

**Angela:** [00:01:07] Well, thank you Mikayla for having me. I really
appreciate it.

**Michaela:** [00:01:11] So Angela, how does this all start for you? How did
you, you know, when did you put your first toe into tech, or your foot into
tech, or something like that?

**Angela:** [00:01:21] Well, God, this started many years ago, so I started on a
help desk and then, you know, at a really small company. And then I turned into
a network admin. I was really a sysadmin who did network stuff, and then I
became a, you know, changed jobs, became a full fledged, sysadmin. During this
really long stint, I tried a lot of different things. I thought I wanted to be a
developer, so I learned it and then I realized I was a better sysadmin than a
developer, so then I learned and pivoted, learned a lot of cloud and other
products and processes and became a solutions architect at a software company.
So that's where I am right now.

**Michaela:** [00:02:08] Yeah, yeah. And do you want to share which company that
is, where do you work right now?

**Angela:** [00:02:13] I work for Red Hat, and they're an international company.
They're all over. So, uh, yeah, that's, I've been there since May.

**Michaela:** [00:02:22] Okay. And so the solution architect role was the first
time that you had that was now this position at Red Hat, or have you done it
before?

**Angela:** [00:02:31] Nope, this was the first one. I've been a sysadmin for
the past 15 years.

**Michaela:** [00:02:37] Okay, so cool. What does a solution architect do? What
does your day to day look like?

**Angela:** [00:02:41] Hah! So my day to day is a lot of learning. Because I'm
new, I'm learning the Red Hat portfolio, learning how things work, using labs,
building my own clusters and installing services, understanding how they work.
And, what I do is I help customers devise solutions to their technical problems,
you know, be it moving into cloud native development, or helping people organize
and modernize their infrastructure is basically what I do.

**Michaela:** [00:03:17] Okay, very cool. Yeah so, before I actually left
Microsoft, I was looking at some different positions there. And one of those
positions were also solution architects, or very customer facing positions,
which are similar to what you just described, but this would have involved a lot
of travel. So, how does that work right now with the pandemic, how do you work
with the customer? How do you work? You know, how are you a solution architect
with these travel restrictions and things like that? Does it all work remote
now?

**Angela:** [00:03:48] It's all remote. So, there is no travel. My job usually
during non pandemic times would be a lot of travel, I'd be visiting people, and
because of the market that I work in, I'd be visiting state and local
governments and educational institutions in health care. So I'd be all over, but
now everything happens via remote conferencing.

**Michaela:** [00:04:13] Yeah, yeah. And does it work?

**Angela:** [00:04:15] It does, it really does. You can do more meetings in a
day, which is great -- I think the volume in which we can reach out and help
people is great, but, being hands on is something that is, you know, I can't
wait until it gets to that point because there's a different dynamic when you
work with people face to face, you know, meetings can go over, you can, you
know, whiteboard, you can brainstorm, and people are more comfortable asking
questions in their environment because they're in their office on their turf,
and then you can invite more people in, because usually on these calls, what I
find is there's always someone missing from the conversation. And, you know, not
to say that it can't happen, you know, when you're on prem, but I think being
accessible is something that we're working around, but I think that's kinda
missing, and I think everyone looks forward to the day when we can get that to
more face to face.

**Michaela:** [00:05:22] Yeah, so have you been traveling before as well, so
extensively as a sysadmin, or I guess --

**Angela:** [00:05:27] No, my travel was basically to conferences and to local
meetups and things of that nature, and that was it, you know -- it was a few
times a year versus, you know, being a solutions architect, it could be a few
times a month.

**Michaela:** [00:05:46] Yes, yeah, I can imagine, yeah. So, have you ever
actually experienced this travel, this heavy travel workload? Or was the
pandemic already hitting before, right?

**Angela:** [00:05:59] No, I haven't had the opportunity to do any travel for
work. I started during the pandemic, so right in the middle. I decided to step
out on faith and take this job because it was interesting and it was different
and I can learn all these technologies and I can travel. So it was, it seems
like the perfect job at the perfect time -- just professionally, it seemed like
the right thing to do.

**Michaela:** [00:06:29] Yeah, I think it's also cool that now you can really
focus on learning everything and don't have the added stress of traveling, then
once you're already confident and know your stuff, then you're starting to
travel. I don't know -- that's at least how I imagine it, right now, but uh --

**Angela:** [00:06:44] Well, just think I'm in this house all day. And once, you
know, whatever time my date ends, I can still sit here and learn. I bought a
server so I can have a lab environment at home. It sounds like a plane taking
off in my house, so I can't leave it on, and of course I use, you know,
virtualization on, you know, a personal machine, so I've always been into
learning and testing on my own, but I have so much more time to do that now,
which is amazing! So, I'm studying now for my RH CSA, which is the Red Hat
certified solutions systems administrator, I think. Yeah. So that's the first
entry level certification at Red Hat, and all solution architects have to take
it. So that's what I'm doing along with learning -- a whole bunch of other
stuff. So this is perfect.

**Michaela:** [00:07:40] Yeah, I can imagine! It's not only the commute -- I
mean, you have a long commute to your clients, right? And you're saving all on
that and can actually put that into your development and your learning of
things. So yeah, that sounds really cool. But so, you haven't been a solutions
architect before, and you just applied for this job and they took a chance and
hired you without prior knowledge or prior experience -- is that how it works
and you're learning on the job?

**Angela:** [00:08:09] Well, what I'm learning is their technology. I've been
technical for over, about 20 years. Being able, what a solution architect does
-- Yes, it's technical, and yes, I'm technical. But what I'm doing is I'm
communicating, and I'm listening, and I'm thinking, and I'm devising and I'm
doing more than -- and I don't want to say anyone can become a solutions
architect -- but what it takes, the skills in my opinion, that it takes is that
you have to be a very good listener, you have to see what people are saying.
Sometimes they don't know what they're saying, so you also have to be a good
interviewer. You have to be able to ask those questions that get the information
out of them. You have to have patience. You have to have emotional quotient. You
have to be able to read people and communicate with people. So, there are a lot
more, I wanna say soft skills, in my opinion, in being a solutions architect
than there are technical -- because if you're technical, you can learn new tech.
That's not the issue. But being a communicator and facilitating and helping a
customer get to where they need to be technologically -- that's the skill in my
opinion.

**Michaela:** [00:09:38] Yeah, I totally agree. I also see it. I see it that
way, so very cool! I hear already that you're learning a lot and I also, when I
looked at your website, I saw so many certificates. So, why do you do the
certificates? Is it / was it required on your job, or is it out of passion for
yourself or how does it, how does this happen?

**Angela:** [00:10:03] Well, it was never required by my job. It was never a
term of employment. What I found in getting certified in certain things was that
you learn this very baseline information that the vendor wants you to learn,
right? So take, you know, LPI Linux, you know, if you want to learn Linux, just
the essentials, just enough to understand what Linux is and to use it as an
operating system, you know, they've developed this certification. So you study
it, you learn what they expect you to learn. You take it and you pass it. I did
the same thing for, you know, the AWS certified solutions architect associate.
We were using AWS as our cloud provider. We also ran a private cloud using
VMware. So what these companies do, I said well, I'm using it every day -- I'm
using it in certain ways, but they've developed these certifications that they
want people to know, at least this much -- we want to give you this much
information about our services and how they work together, and I think studying
for certification and passing it is an amazing way: one, to level up; and two,
if you're really interested in any particular technology aside from using it and
getting comfortable with it and, you know, seeing how it works, getting hands
on, getting a certification is a really good way because you can't learn it
without using it. So, it really does answer those two questions -- like, you get
your hands on, yes, you do! Do you learn what they're expecting you to learn?
Yes. And then what I think it does, it really broadens, you know, the product
for you, because I only used certain AWS products, but studying for the
solutions architect, I used products that I'd never seen before, so it wasn't a
learning experience for me. Same thing with the security plus -- I studied for
it, started taking practice exams, and then I got this job. So now that I got
this job and I'm doing all this learning for work, I had to stop studying for my
security plus. I had to stop studying for my GCP ACE exam. It's an associate
cloud engineer. So I had these two things up in the air, like I'm so close! I'm
taking my practice exams. I've gone through all the material and then I get this
job and it's like: oh man, but I won't have enough time to, you know, finish
before the actual job starts, because the job is learning. I'm going to pick
them back up though!

**Michaela:** [00:12:50] They are a little bit on hold now and then they're
going. Yeah. Yeah. Well, one step at a time, I would say!

**Angela:** [00:12:56] One step at a time -- and they're paying me! So I'll do,
I'll take their Red Hat exams obviously. And it's fun! I'm having a good time
learning. We have a study group at work that are getting certified -- a bunch of
solutions architects, so it's actually really nice.

**Michaela:** [00:13:12] I think it's also nice that with these certificates,
you have somehow a roadmap, right? So you're not out in the open because you
could probably learn the same thing, getting different tutorials and different,
you know, having yourself, setting yourself as different challenges and things
like that, but you don't know if you have actually covered everything. There's a
lot of work also to prepare that you covered everything and you did everything
in the depth that you should and so on, so somehow this gives you a roadmap to
let you know, actually I did it, right? It's a little bit like a checklist -- do
I know everything that I should actually know?

**Michaela:** [00:13:44] And, so for the certificates that you did, how did you
select them? Because, I mean, I don't think I have a lot of certificates -- well
I mean I have a few, -- I mean, I did university, right? (That's like my
certification) But I didn't pick up a lot of certifications outside -- it was
never required by my job, and I did a few things like ScrumMaster, but I wasn't
really -- I didn't really feel like this is as useful as it should be, and then
I didn't like the machinery behind it, because if you get certified as a
ScrumMaster, right, you're only certified for a certain time and then you are
not certified anymore, and it felt like, I mean, I know people that took it,
it's more like you're paying that money and then you're getting a certification,
right, so this wasn't something that I wanted to be part of right? So, I
probably did have really good ones right, but a lot of them just have to
certificate, you paid $2000 or whatever euros, right -- they got their
certification. Then they are ScrumMasters. And if they don't pay it (my husband
had one, right). If they don't pay it in two years time, then they're not
ScrumMasters anymore, right? And so I felt like, okay, this is, I didn't believe
into it, right. It felt like this is not really fair, you know? You are it
because you know it or you're not, right? It shouldn't be bound to the money
that you're currently paying. I don't know, how are those other certificates
working? Is this the same thinking -- I understand also that if technology
changes, right, you have to recertify yourself because otherwise you're
outdated. But for ScrumMasters, for example, I found it was very silly with soft
skills basically, right? So --

**Angela:** [00:15:27] I agree. With the, I'll use the AWS cert as an example,
once you take it, you are now certified for three years. Now, if you know
anything about AWS, you know, it changes at the speed of sound. Every reinvent,
their annual conference that they have at the end of the year, they produce, you
know, a bunch of new services and how things work together. So at that pace, you
know, your cert that you've taken -- you might want to level up and learn the
new tools. So I'll tell you this. I took mine in 2019 and they just changed the
cert and I looked at it and I'm like, wow, this is, it's a bunch of new stuff!
So, for something that changes as rapidly as technology, meaning, you know --
I'm now an AWS certified, you know, engineer. And, but now they have, you know,
a hundred new services that are a really big part of their product line, and I
don't know what else is there to do other than, you know, get back in there and
recertify. So for something like that, I get -- you have to stay on the pulse of
what the technology is.

**Michaela:** [00:16:47] But when you get recertified, do you really have a test
again? Or --

**Angela:** [00:16:52] Yes, you do --

**Michaela:** [00:16:53] -- is it just paid? You know, because I think these are
also two really different things, right? So either people are recertified by
they're really proving that they know again, their stuff, or, you know, getting
recertified by paying, which I find a little bit --

**Angela:** [00:17:03] So I think different vendors have different means for
staying certified and recertifying. Some will ask you to take continuing
education credits, which means during the course of your certification, you're
constantly learning the stuff that they're putting out, or someone's putting
out, and you're obtaining this credit. So you're showing them that you're
invested in this technology and staying informed about this particular vertical
-- that you you're going to do, what it takes, so they sometimes ask you to
take, you know, you need to have this many continuing education credits, or you
have to recertify. Now that again, that doesn't bother me either, because if
this is something that you're interested in, you should want to stay ahead of
the curve and learn the new technologies and take those workshops and things
like that. So I think that's very important. And the ones that are just asking
you for more money, just for a cert, to each their own -- there may be something
to that, especially if you're a career transitioner or you're trying to pivot
into something, those certifications are the fuel in your tank to get you where
you need to go. But once you're there, you know -- you can kind of say, well, I
don't feel like I need to take this exam again. Maybe there's something else
that, you know, kind of is in the vein, but it's with newer technology with
newer understanding. Maybe that's what I'll go after. So, I think it's a very
personal decision on why people decide to take certs. Sometimes their jobs just
require it -- like mine does now. I'd never been in a job that had required me
to get these certifications. I did it because I was curious. Now I'm doing it
because yes, I'm still curious and they're paying me for it!

**Michaela:** [00:19:02] Yes, yeah, I think that certifications, or taking
courses, right, I took a lot of courses and learned a lot of things, and
certification somehow stand out for that, showing that the person is actually
very curious, right, they're a learner. And so even if you did a certification
and it's not valid anymore -- maybe you don't need the technology, but it shows
something right, that you learned that at that time. And I think even for
outdated data technologies, we are learning so many things that you can, you
know, from the basic mental models and from the concepts that you can actually
extract and then apply to something else, right? So, I think it also helps you
speed up for new technology, right? So, your past experiences and technology, I
mean, it evolves, but it's based on the same principles right?

So, yeah. I wanted to talk still a little bit more about the different hats that
you've worn, and also I know that you're super passionate about security, and
that you have been coding, right? So you briefly mentioned that you have been
coding. How was that part of your experience? Why did you start to code? Which
languages did you start to code? How did you learn it and how did you decide
that you're not going to go that route further, but stay in the admin part?

**Angela:** [00:20:29] So, I'd taken programming in college and I was like, ah,
that's great. And then, you know, I got into the workforce, and it was my son's
PTA, and they needed someone to build them a website. And I said, oh great. I
can do this -- so I did it. And at the time I'd worked at a university that
offered a web development certificate program. So, because I worked at a
university, I didn't have to pay for it, so I had gotten certified in web
development. I learned how to program in JavaScript and I do front end web
development. It was lacking in some things, I will have to say. So, a couple of
years later, now, I'm in the coding community in my city, which had these
vibrant meetup space or meet up groups. So I started as a student taking some
classes, you know, learning in these workshops and going to these meetups. And,
at one point I turned this corner and I started being a TA. And, at another
quarter, like right when I was about to make the decision to become a developer,
because I had decided I'm going to go to a full stack. I went to a full stack
coding boot camp, and it was six months long. And I learned a lot. We did react,
of course, JavaScript, jQuery -- we learned Mongo, you know, SQL -- we learned
the whole stack, and at the end, I kind of thought about it, like everyone's
applying for jobs and things like that. Now mind you, I'm a systems
administrator and I'm like, oh man, this does seem -- I've been doing this for a
couple of years now as a hobby, wow, I can actually pivot into it. And then I
decided, you know what? I don't think I want to be a web developer, because I
didn't want to take a pay cut as a system administrator. Now, I'm older. I have
a mortgage and a family. Like I didn't, I don't know if I'm willing to make that
sacrifice. But what I did find was that learning, you know, understanding code
was such a big part of making me a better systems administrator. Well, that's
what happened and being able to, you know, read code and work with developers
and speak their language and write my own code and having that mindset made me a
better systems administrator. So, you know, was it worth it? Of course it was. I
thought it was worth it, and since, you know, I don't know how many people can
say once, you know, graduating from that bootcamp, you know, I've probably
doubled my salary. Like. now, was it a direct response from taking the bootcamp?
No, I think it had a lot to do with my experience, the things that I've done --
my abilities, and it was this total package. It was like a perfect storm in my
career where I think that played a part of it, but there was so many parts, but
I'm sure that played a part in it as well.

I'm just going to back up a little bit. So that was in what, 2018? And, you
know, then I started getting into -- I had this little coding meetup at my
house. This started in 2017: so every, you know, every month or so a bunch of
women would get together and come to my house and we would code. So one day I
said, oh, does anybody, you know, want to deploy a server on AWS? I'm the only
Linux person. No one knows Linux. No one really is delving into deploying on a
cloud. So, we're sitting there and I'm teaching these women how to deploy
WordPress into an EC2 instance. First time on the command line for everybody --
it was crazy how much they learned. Well, someone took a photo and posted it on
Twitter. And this guy who runs a local meetup, WordPress meetup -- he said, oh
man, could you do talk for us? And I was like, well, it wasn't a talk. It was
just a bunch of friends. So I developed this talk and put it on for this amazing
meetup in a Philly WordPress group, and then I wind up doing it as a workshop at
a conference with one of the women that was in the group (she was a WordPress
developer).

That was me still working in this dev space, and then, you know, cloud got real,
and I really wanted to get my AWS cert, and I did that. And then I started this
group in the beginning of the year, 'cause I was learning Python last year with
a fella. We would meet on Zoom once a week. And it was like, wow, boy it would
be nice to get more people in our group! So I took to Twitter and I went, who
wants to join this group? I got so much response. So now I have this, you know,
weekly group that meets on Zoom. Four different time zones, four times a week.
Different people, different group leaders, all learning Python. So it's a group
called Python for All. It is amazing because you know, we've got people on the
West coast and you know, down South, we've got two East coast groups. They all
meet at different times and everyone's learning Python together. And the reason
it's called Python for All is because Python touches everything. Python touches
dev ops, it's touching configuration management, it's touching ML, it's touching
data science, it's touching cloud, it's touching everything. So, Python for All,
even, such as security. So I started being a teaching assistant and a substitute
teacher for a cybersecurity bootcamp in Philadelphia last year. And Python was a
huge, it was a part of it. You have to learn how to write scripts to do certain
things and understand coding and what code looks like, and how to break into web
servers and things like that. So, being able to use code to solve problems is
not just for developers. That skill goes through many different career paths.
So, that was my awesome foray into getting into cybersecurity. And then, you
know, more people want to learn how to get their cert or learn the background,
get certified. So, I started a security plus study group. And it ran for X
number of months, and everyone's now getting their certification and passing!
And, of course, now that I have my new job, I haven't been able to finish, but
again, I felt really happy to be able to be a part of this and watching all
these people just: "I got my cert! I passed my security plus!" That's where my
life has been in the past couple of years.

**Michaela:** [00:27:54] So very community driven also, and a lot of people --

**Angela:** [00:27:59] Community is everything.

**Michaela:** [00:28:01] Yeah, and I can really see that you're like, you're
glowing a little bit when you're talking about it -- it's really awesome. Have
you done that mostly -- you said Zoom -- so it's mostly remote, but you also had
like this meetups where people are coming to your house, right? And you have
been a little bit in your, in your local community as well. And does it give you
the same energy boost, like this remote thing, or is it more when you're with
the people in the same room, in the same city that you can connect, that you're
getting this energy from --

**Angela:** [00:28:35] It comes from both. I think, just connecting with people
-- I guess it would be harder if I didn't know them, right? But no, getting to
know them has helped. Some of the people of course came in and I knew them -- a
lot of the people in security plus were my students. Some people I didn't know
at all. They reached out on Twitter. So, I find that remote allows you to build
the comradery. I found that people were more open for whatever reason. And I
liked them both. I really do. The class was in person until COVID hit (the
cybersecurity bootcamp), so I was in class three nights a week, three days a
week, and I'm getting to know these people as people and how, you know, helping
them maneuver their way into becoming cybersecurity professionals. Am I a cyber
security practitioner? No, but my job really does entail a lot of the skills
needed to be that person. I mean, I have to know bash. I have to know servers. I
have to know databases. I have to know port numbers. I have to know networking.
Well, so do cybersecurity professionals. They take that pivot when they're
getting into more penetration, and command and control and things like that --
but they're still using the same skills. The same skills that I already have.
So, yeah, I think it's great.

**Michaela:** [00:30:12] Very cool. So what made really curious is that you
mentioned you have a kid, right? So when I think about myself, I don't, I mean,
my kids are really small, but it's really hard for me to get out and have
meetups. We have also a meetup here and I have been, I think. I don't know, in
the last two years I've been three times or something. And I was very proud if I
made it there, right? So most of my social experience in my community is online
mainly because I feel I'm very home bound and still in the house and they need
me at night and things like that. Do you want to share, how old is your kid and
has this changed over time or, you know, or is it hard to combine? I dunno.

**Angela:** [00:30:57] My kids are adults! I don't have that problem!

**Michaela:** [00:31:02] I was really wondering like, how are you doing it? Like
you're everywhere. And I'm like, struggling!

**Angela:** [00:31:09] Well, I'm going to say, my children are probably older
than you think. They're 23 and 30. This face is kind of like, very misleading!

**Michaela:** [00:31:28] It is! Yeah, I found it -- maybe you're straggling like
me, but the two or the four year old or something?

**Angela:** [00:31:34] My dog is four!

**Michaela:** [00:31:42] Wow, I wouldn't have thought! Okay, so yeah, it's a
different lifestyle.

**Angela:** [00:31:47] Mmhm.

**Michaela:** [00:31:48] I can see myself doing that when they're out of the
house!

**Angela:** [00:31:51] Yes, of course! Well, because you have more time on your
hands. So I will say this, you know, when I started getting into development and
programming, my son was in high school. Before then, I would have never been
able to do stuff like that. I mean, they take up so much time with their sports
and activities and things like that. Me and my husband dividing time behind, you
know, this one going one place and this one going somewhere else. It was -- it's
hard, 'cause understanding where my free time came when they were younger, I
don't think I would have been able to do this as vigorously if they were
younger. I mean, I would still try, I'm going to assume that I would still want
to try, but it wouldn't have been as easy.

**Michaela:** [00:32:42] Yeah. Yeah. As I said, I barely leave the house, now
with COVID I don't leave the house at all anymore! I'm really happy if I can go
into this office and nobody, you know, storms my space. So, one thing that I
wanted to ask you, if you still have a little bit of time -- I'm super
interested in software engineering practices, right? And I know that now you're
now not a software engineer, but you're working with software engineers and
you're deploying code and you're helping people really run their systems. So, my
question is how do you see different software engineering practices influence
your work? Do you see that? Do you see that some practices are better than
others, and while you were coding, did you learn about them? And can you now
apply that somehow -- we were talking about security, which is one part, right,
that people are testing their system, that they are maybe code reviewing their
systems. I don't know if you see the impact of those different practices and the
rigor people put behind them in your day to day life.

**Angela:** [00:33:50] Well, not so much as a solutions architect, because
again, you know, we don't have privy, we're not privy to the customers, you
know, practices, -- when those practices are lacking, we try to point them into
the direction, you know, IT optimization -- how can you make things work better
in your environment? But as a systems administrator, what I found is, good
coding practices are of course, you know, being security minded. So, there's
like this three legged stool, I think that, you know, uh, applications and code
sit on top of, so developers have a really big part of it because they're the
ones that are writing the code. But, what I think they should really take into
consideration is at the beginning, not as an afterthought, what is / how am I
best securing this code? How am I best making sure that this, what I'm writing,
is safe to put out there -- you know, data can't be easily extracted, I am
protecting my keys... That's part of it. Another part of it being an ops person
is, you know, on this other leg of the stool, you know, what are we doing? How
are we protecting the systems that this code runs on? Is the operating system
patched and secure? Does it have the right firewalls and ports open? How are we
protecting the perimeter? What traffic can get in and out? And then of course
there's another leg, and sometimes, you know, depending on the organization,
that person could be coupled into another role, but, the security part -- well,
how are we going to scan this for any type of vulnerabilities in the code per
se, you know, looking for what kind of packages are running inside of this
application? So, there's this DevSecOps thing that's going around, and I think
that's really a big part of it because you can't do dev without the other, and
it goes vice versa. A lot of these coding bootcamps are not teaching their
students about security. I think a lot of these tutorials that you see in all
these spaces, they're not touching on, "how do I secure my application?" And I
think being in an environment, working at a company -- hopefully it's a part of
the practices, hopefully it's a part of the culture. So when you, as a new
developer, you come into this new organization -- hopefully they have those
processes in place that you have to abide by. You have to do things a certain
way. You have to test your code a certain way, if you think about it, most
security breaches happen through human error, right? You left keys somewhere, or
you didn't patch a system or something like that.

So, I think when we are: one, I think more diligent with how we're protecting
our systems, and staying up to date with patches is a really big part of it; but
two, is making sure that it's always a part of the conversation and never an
afterthought. Like don't tack it on to the end, because what happens is, and if
you've ever built / wrote any code, you know, the stuff that you start trying to
put into once you've finished -- they don't integrate very well. So I think good
engineering practices, you know, definitely have someone review your code,
everything should go through some sort of code review. Everything should have
some sort of testing framework, and testing not just if it looks great or if
it's responsive, but can we hack into it? Can we get data from it? Can we do
some cross site scripting and get some information from this website? So, I
think everybody has to, you just expound where their reaches are just a little
bit more. So, developers need to be more security conscious -- they have to also
know the systems. Don't write code -- don't write bad code that eats up
resources, you know, understand what happens when you write code -- it has an
impact on the underlying infrastructure, and be smart about that. And, it goes
both ways -- as an ops person, you should understand code, you should be able to
read it and understand, well, you're missing something very key here, or be able
to offer some suggestions. And of course, security is everywhere. Security needs
to understand that they're this blanket over everything because they don't want
the intellectual property or the information to get out of the organization. So,
having that DevSecOps / DevOps means a lot of different things to a lot of
different people, but if you think about it in terms of the roles that people
play, those roles cross; they mesh together, and they're always overlapping.
Having those practices in place in your organization, and if you don't know /
recognize them, if you don't see them, bring them up, because maybe someone else
was thinking about the exact same thing. So, conversations are the best way to
solve problems, and if something, one thing or the other is missing from your
engineering practices that you think should be there, bring it to your team. You
might be that person that, you know, has this great idea, and your team can get
on board with it. So, it just depends on where you are in your career. It
depends on what organization you're in, but you know, learn what you can, and
put your 2 cents in where you see fit. You don't know what you don't know, so I
don't fault people for that, but if you do know something, it behooves you to
bring that experience to where you are and help better the team. Only good can
come out out of that.

**Michaela:** [00:40:01] Yeah, that sounds great. So one of the things that now
did you say, well, communication, right. And seeing when things are not going
right, is one of the things that came to my mind is incident handling, right? So
postmortems of, if there are some incidents in your organization, right, maybe
there is some security vulnerability that has been exploited or, you know, maybe
there is some attack, you know, maybe the system is down and things like that.
And, with all your experience, you've definitely lived through some of those,
right?

**Angela:** [00:40:30] Yes.

**Michaela:** [00:40:31] What makes a good post-mortem and an incident
investigation? What are some of the presets that you think, you know, really
help the teams learn from the problems that they made?

**Angela:** [00:40:44] Ooh, that's a big one. So, I think again, you don't know
what you don't know. So, having great logging to begin with, make sure you're
monitoring your environment. This is before any incident occurs. So, you have
some sort of, you know, some sort of seam, which is a system event management
system where logs are going, so you can capture the type of traffic that's going
in and out of your environment between systems. That is even before anything,
any breach occurs, but for good incident management, I think, you know, because
it's not: "Oh, well, have I been breached?", but you know -- at some point
there's some sort of breach somewhere, right? So I think a good postmortem --
there is no good post-mortem -- but I think good tips would be is to, one, ask
the question: why something so and so happened? Why? Well, because we didn't do,
we didn't patch this vulnerability. Well, why? Well, because whatever. Well,
why? -- and I've been in one of those where that constant question kept coming,
and you get to the root cause. And it doesn't feel good, but nine times out of
ten, sometimes it's human error, sometimes a process breaks -- you don't even
know that it's broken, and something goes awry -- but being able to monitor your
environment and make sure you have good logs, make sure that, you're penetration
testing your own environment, you know, hopefully there's someone on board that
can do this type of thing. That's why security is basically everybody's job. But
hopefully if you have a security department, they're doing those kinds of things
to stay proactive against it. So they're putting honeypots in and they're doing
vulnerability scans and they're pen testing their own environment. So, they're
trying to get ahead of any type of -- they're doing the things that the
nefarious people on the outside are doing, but they're trying to do it on the
inside to see, oh, we need to plug this hole, oh, we need to plug this hole. So,
that was one of the most uncomfortable instances in my professional career. And
you know, I have a room full of professionals sitting there and having this
question asked over and over, but what it does is it exposes, you know, well
where you went wrong, you know, and it helps you the next time. So there is no
-- it's not a bad thing. It opens your eyes, and then you decide, well, how do
we prevent this from happening? And you develop those processes and you stick to
them, because you don't want to be in that hot seat again. So, I think incidents
response is not comfortable, but what you get out of the end of it -- hopefully,
it's more information, it helps put you in a better security posture, and it
gets everybody on board because now you're talking, now you're understanding
what your impact has on the environment as a whole. Sometimes you don't even
know what your impact holds, but something like this will definitely tell you
that you do hold a lot of power. So I just think it's funny because it was one
time, and it had to be over 10 years ago, and I'll never forget it. Yeah, you're
forever shaped.

**Michaela:** [00:44:27] I really like your focus on why, because there are also
people that are focusing on who, right? So these are two things, and sometimes
probably go hand in hand, but the question is what is the bigger one, right?
What is the bigger question? Is it the why? Or is it the who? And also, I think,
I don't know, maybe the last four, four months, four months ago or something,
one of the big CEO's on Twitter that I'm following, he was sharing that -- they
had like a $1 million incident or something, right? And so, some of the
questions were: was the guy fired, right? And he was, why would I fire a person
that just learned a $1 million lesson, right? I mean, this is the last, or the
last person that I will find any situation, which I found a really nice mindset,
right? So, we can learn from this, it happened, right? Probably, very often,
it's human error, so there will be a queue somewhere, right, a person that has
made a mistake, but often it's a chain reaction, right? It's not one person
doing a mistake, but maybe several things to bleed together, so probably one
person doing something, but there is a -- yeah, it's part of life so that we can
actually learn from it together. But yeah, I like that you put this "why" more
in focus than the "who" -- have you been in situations where there was this
"who" a more bigger impact and where people were afraid of, you know, being the
person that is the "who", and being fired off of making mistakes?

**Angela:** [00:46:00] Well, the "why" will always get to the "who" -- that's
just how, because everyone knows their role, and that role in the incident tends
to expose itself. So, if you're a part of a team, and, your job is part of what
caused the incident. Trust me, at the end of those questions, you and your
heart, you're going to know. And then, everyone else is going to know. There was
no moment -- and again, like you said, sometimes it's multiple. I don't think
anybody in my group felt the slightest bit fearful or threatened, because it
just happened, and it can happen, you know? Yes, it's usually human error, but
why? Again, the why -- so that why could be a process, or another task, or
another project, or, well, what are you doing? You know, what's going on in the
organization where you hold this part of this person's job into such high
esteem where you say, "Okay, but wait, I need you to direct your attention here
for a second."

So, it has a lot to do with not just the people, but the processes as well. At
the end of the day, there's always something someone did or some process that
failed, but then, what have you gotten at the end of it? Well, you've learned
that, no, you shouldn't put off patches just because it's an inconvenience to a
developer because they don't want this system to break, right? So you -- and
this is just an example -- but, nine times out of 10, there's always a reason.
There's always a reason, and it could be lack of training, it could be workload,
it could be something broke somewhere else and this was like a stop gap or
something. So, I think it's just anything that happens, you know, sometimes it
is a million dollar mistake and I don't think, unless it was done on purpose,
anyone should lose their job for something like that. I think because we're
human and humans make mistakes, but humans tend to learn from them as well. So,
you have to give people that type of grace and that leeway. I've never worked in
an organization where -- and I think I'm very lucky. I've never worked somewhere
where I felt, "oh my God, if I make a mistake, they're gonna fire me." No. So,
there's a motto in my company: "Fail fast." If you're going to make a mistake,
do it, get it out of the way, 'cause you've learned -- you've learned from your
mistake, and now you've learned about 50 million ways to get it around it. Fail
fast, get it over with! I agree.

**Michaela:** [00:49:03] And I think also there's this idea that's for example,
proclaimed also by Google and other site reliability engineers, right? Where you
say, well, if you find an arrow that can be made by one person, right? Then
you're working around that, you learn from that so that this arrow can actually
not be made by a human anymore, right? So it shouldn't go through if one person
makes a mistake, right? This should probably be something with your process
that's not completely correct, right? Or something that you could actually work,
and that this problem, or this mistake, that one person makes doesn't cost a
million dollars, right? There's something fundamentally wrong. It's not really
the person that made this mistake, right? It's their organization that made this
$1 million mistake.

**Angela:** [00:49:49] Right. And not every company is Google. So not everyone
has the infrastructure to design that type of high availability or reliability
into their systems. So, you have to build your systems as robustly and securely
as you can, with the budget that you've been given. So, not everybody's Google,
not everybody, but if you have that mindset, I think that goes very far --
having that mindset, that one person can't sink the ship, is a great way to look
at it. And you try to do what you can in your organization, that is not of that
scale, to try to circumvent those types of issues.

**Michaela:** [00:50:34] Yeah, that's a very good point, yeah. Wonderful! So,
thank you so much, Angela, for being on my show today. I don't know if you have
anything that you haven't addressed that you want to share with the listeners or
people on YouTube that are watching?

**Angela:** [00:50:50] Oh, well, I would say, you know, find your passion. Tech
is a really big field. It is not just developers. It is not just front end,
backend -- it just spans so much, and I've done a lot of it. I think, like I
said, I've worn a lot of hats, you know, systems and help desk and web
development and, you know, a solutions architect and cloud, and... So, find
where your interests lie, and go after them, and don't feel upset if you find
something and say, "Well, I'd rather do this, or I'd rather integrate more into
this." That's totally okay, because I think that curiosity is what makes you
more marketable. 'Cause it worked for me -- I think because I'm so curious,
that's what helped me get my new job, because anybody can learn certain
technologies. I think that's great, but how you learn them, and how you
communicate them, and how you put them into practice -- that makes a really big
difference as well.

**Michaela:** [00:51:58] Yeah, I wholeheartedly agree. Thank you so much for
being on my show!

**Angela:** [00:52:04] It was a pleasure! Take care of yourself.

**Michaela:** [00:52:06] Yeah, bye bye!

**Angela:** [00:52:08] Bye bye.

**Michaela:** [00:52:09] I hope you enjoyed another episode of the Software
Engineering Unlocked Podcast! Don't forget to subscribe, and I'll talk to you
again in two weeks. Bye!
