---
episode: "Transcript Running a developer community"
permalink: /running-a-developer-community
status: publish
type: transcript
---

[00:00:00] **Michaela:** Hello, and welcome to the software engineering unlocked podcast. I'm
your host, Dr. Michaela. And today I have the pleasure to talk to Bekah Hawrot
Weigel, a web developer and creator of the virtual coffee developer community.

But before I start, let me tell you about an amazing startup that is sponsoring
today's podcast: Codiga.

Codiga is a code analysis platform that automates the boring
part of code reviews and lets you merge with confidence on GitHub, GitLab and
Bitbucket. I've worked with Codiga for around one year now and I really love how it
guides me in discovering and improving, well, the not so nice parts of my codebase.

But there is more. Codiga also has a coding assistant that helps you write
better code faster. Find and share safe and reusable blocks of code within your
favorite IDE on demand while you're coding. Codiga has a great free plan, so
there's nothing that stops you from giving it a try today. Learn more at [Codiga.io](https://www.codiga.io/?utm_source=podcast&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=se_unlocked).
That is [Codiga.io](https://www.codiga.io/?utm_source=podcast&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=se_unlocked).

But now back to Bekah. Bekah graduated from the bootcamp
Flatiron school in May, 2019. And since then she started a consultancy
specializing in front end development and created the developer community
virtual coffee. She also recently started her new job as a technical community
builder at deep gram.

She's also a mom of four, so I'm totally impressed. And yesterday I went to pick
her brain on how she could develop this awesome. Develop a community so fast in
just a little bit under two years.

So that come to my show background, I'm really, really excited that
you are here.

[00:01:41] **Bekah:** Thanks so much for having me. I'm very
excited to be here too.

[00:01:45] **Michaela:** Yeah. So can you tell me a little bit about virtual coffee,
what it is? And for me it seems a little bit different than other communities.
It seems a little bit, a little bit more niche, grit, like closer.

Wh how would you describe it?

[00:01:59] **Bekah:** Yeah, I think that's a great way to describe
it. We always like to say that we like the intimacy of virtual coffee because
we're a small community of developers where all stages of the journey. So if
you're just learning, if you've been doing it your whole career we've got
everybody and we're tech agnostic, so it doesn't matter what, what tech tools
you're using.

If you want to meet up with other developers and share and support each other.
We're here for it. So we meet up twice a week when we meet up on Tuesdays at
9:00 AM Eastern, and Wednesdays at 12:00 PM Eastern for some chats. So we go
into breakout rooms. So we have small group conversation. We like to maintain
that intimacy.

And then for members, so people who have attended at least one virtual coffee,
they're welcome into our slack and our members only events. So we have lunch and learns
on most Fridays, we're running our third round of lightening talks soon. We've
got monthly challenges and some other small groups that meet that are building
within the slack community, which is just so great to see everybody supporting
each other and working to meet the needs of the community.

[00:03:04] **Michaela:** Yeah. So there's a bunch of things that you just
mentioned. Right? So a virtual coffee. When I came to know it, it was mainly
there's. The weekly, or I don't know if it was even PVT at the start, but it was
like this virtual coffees where you. We're seeing each other and chatting to
each other and now it grew into something really big.

Right. And so you say you it's, it's a small community, but, but how large is
it? Like how many people are participating here and, you know, , what else do
you do to keep this , intimacy, Ronaldo and Messi. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. How do
you, how.

[00:03:43] **Bekah:** , Well, you know, we've got our slack has almost 600 people
in it, but I would like to just note that I think that, you know, there's a lot
of people who used to be active that aren't active anymore.

And one of the things about the community is we're really close, but it is
transient in nature because sometimes people are looking for their
first job and they get it and they can't come around much anymore. Sometimes
people change jobs and their availability changes.

So, you know, one of the things that we really like is being able to celebrate
wins with other people.

It's bittersweet a lot of times because you know that they won't be around much
anymore, but you know, like occasionally I'll get messages from people who came
at the very beginning and it's just so great to, you know, still have that
connection and know that, you know, we support each other, whether we're in
slack or not.

So I would say maybe we have about 200, 200 or 300 active members, which I think
is still pretty good. 30 to 50% of our slack is fairly active. And I think, you
know, we maintain that intimacy by doing, by focusing on small group
conversation in a lot of ways. So the small group conversation that happens
when we meet up on zoom twice a week we try and keep our breakout rooms between
eight and 14 people, but we always

Start in the big zoom room together. And we go over some announcements, like our
code of conduct and what the mission of virtual coffee is, a little bit of our
history just to allow people to get a glimpse of this is how long we've been
doing things. And this is how, how things have grown. And so,you know, by having that
interaction with other people by seeing faces or hearing voices or interacting
in a synchronous way, it provides some kind of connection and friendship that
doesn't happen as easily in async only environments.

And then it's great to see what the community members are doing. We have let's
see here, we've got all of these small groups meeting within the community and.
Tech interview study group. These are all led by members that happened on
Monday. We have an indie hackers meetup on Wednesday, a react meetup on
Wednesday and [00:06:00] a monthly challenge check-in on Friday.

So, you know, the members are really there to support each other and to see what
the needs are. And so not, everybody's going to come to indie hackers. I like to
go to that one. It's one of my favorites. You know, maybe there's like six to eight
people there, but it's great because you can really dive into those deeper
conversations and get to know people in the, those small moments in ways that
you can't when you're in a large group of people.

So I think that's one of the things that, that we've done well is have people
who care about each other and, and see them supporting each other in their needs.

[00:06:36] **Michaela:** Yeah, that sounds really good. And there are a couple
of things that I want to touch base on that you mentioned, first of all. So I
can imagine that there are like a hundred people joining your zoom, and then you
have this announcement.

Remember you're members of what is all about, which I think is really good for
the mission also, and for new members to, you know, Just introduce them to your
culture ,code of conduct and them so on, but then how do you announce the
different breakout rooms? Do you know, do people speak up and say, oh, I want to
do a breakout room.

Is it like, I don't know if this is an a term in English by the bar camp where
you, and non-conference where it just self-organize itself or do you have to
announce it beforehand? Did you know already, these are the topics of, you know,
today's

[00:07:24] **Bekah:** Yeah. So that's a really great question. So we also, I
should have mentioned this before, because I think one of the ways that we also
have been able to support everybody is we have documented most of our processes
thoroughly.

And that allows us to bring new volunteers on and to support new people. We
think of pretty much every interaction as a opportunity for onboarding new
members and to constantly remind people of the things that matter to us, which
is, you know, being kind and recognizing that the impact of our words matters.

And so we have all of that created and we [00:08:00] have let's see maybe about
30 room leaders and note takers. And so we have a process on Mondays where we see
who's up for volunteering to be a room leader or note taker. And we pick a
introduction question, just a random question. It can be something silly.

Like what kind of dinosaur would you be? And so everybody in the breakout rooms
answers a couple of questions, including that. And we have a Backpocket topic,
but we always say that we like to prioritize what folks who are in the room want
to talk about. So if they have a question or if they have a topic they want to
talk about, we start with that.

And then if not, we've got that back pocket topic. We had virtual coffee today
and our back pocket topic. I'll read it to you. Just so you have a sample of
some of the things, actually, all of them I think are listed on our discussions
in our repository. Our topic today was what are some transferable skills you
bring to tech, either from a previous career or from other parts of your life.

And so actually my breakout room did talk about that. And so everyone there's
okay. So we have the. MC he'll gives all of the announcements. And then we have
a host who controls zoom and the host puts everybody into breakout rooms. So we
already know who our room leaders and note takers are. Those have already been
set up the day before.

And so we make sure that they all get in room and we try to have backup ones.
So, you know, if we need a fifth room, then we're going to have this person as a
backup room leader. Which today I think we did end up using our backup And then
the host goes through and fills all of those rooms and we do our best.

It gets chaotic when people come in late or at the end or drop off and come back
in. But we do our best to make sure that we get a pretty well-rounded room. So
new folks, people who have been there for a while, you know that some people
maybe are leading for the first time. And so you want to put some.

[00:09:53] Dependable talkers in their room. And so you try and make sure that
you do that, but that's kind of the process for what we do and how we do it.

[00:10:00] **Michaela:** Wow, that sounds like you're having a conference and the
organizational, like I say, not a burden, but burden It. It doesn't seem like
it's a burden to you to organizational fun.

Every week, twice. Sounds like a lot of work.

[00:10:15] **Bekah:** Now that we have the process down, it makes it a lot
easier. And we've got some, you know, Slackbots reminding us about some of the
things that we have to do and where to look for things. And it, it is a lot of
fun. There is definitely work behind the scenes that happens to make sure that
we have a, a safe and welcoming environment for everyone.

But, you know, it's worth it. If people feel like this is a safe space that they
can grow.

[00:10:39] **Michaela:** Yeah, definitely. And I can really see like with this organization, I
mean probably if, if, you know, like if you started there like five people come
in, you know, showing up, you don't need a lot of organization. Right.

But then if 10 people, and then it's 20, then you know, you started developing
those processes and you probably see also what works and what does not work. And
what are some of the things that you tried that didn't work out.

[00:11:03] **Bekah:** So, I will say that when I first started virtual coffee,
I didn't even know that zoom had breakout rooms.

So that was a totally new concept to me. And I feel like I've got some expertise
in it. Initially. I so virtual coffee started. I had been working as a developer
for about eight months when the pandemic hit. And then I lost my job because of
the pandemic. My kids were sent home from school. That same day.

They never went back to school that year. I think. And so I was really
interviewing for the first time for jobs and I just didn't have a great sense of
the developer community out there, what the expectations were, how to make it
through the interview process. And so I asked, you know, Hey, does anybody want
to meet up for virtual coffee on Twitter?

And, and that's why we're so called virtual coffee. And so I've learned so much.
And [00:12:00] initially I was kind of resistant to having a slack because, oh,
I don't know if we need it. You know, this is just going to be something we do
for a couple of months. So I, I would say that maybe some of the things that
didn't work were, you know, pushing some of those things off for a while or
being resistant to.

Adding we, we lean on project boards and GitHub issues a lot in our
organization. We want to make sure that we use tools where our members lived.
And so I initially I was resistant. I was like, I can not look at one more
repository no more. And now I'm like, yes. Yeah, we need a repository for that.

So. I think that my, my, the thing that didn't work was my frame of mind around
it, because for a long time, I thought this was going to be a temporary thing.
And when we did our first HacktoberFest event two years ago, that's when I
finally thought, oh, this is, we're not going anywhere. We're this is not just
a pandemic thing.

Like we're filling a need for a lot of people, even outside of the pandemic. And
so that's kind of where. Things started shifting in my mind, like, what is the,
what are the long-term processes and how can we make this sustainable?

[00:13:19] **Michaela:** Yeah. And it's really nice. Yeah. I'm also like, I, I'm
often thinking of creating a community around se unlocked, for example, the
podcast.

Right. But I'm not sure about how it will, you know, what are the right tools?
What is the right kind of community. I'm also more a person of like, I'm not
really good at. Participant in the slack channels and discord channel, I get
very easily overwhelmed. And then, you know, like maybe a week I'm trying really
hard, but

If it already starts with that, you know, I don't, you know, I don't think that
I can run a community like this, but having, you know, chats or, you know, soon
conversations. I was also thinking about Twitter spaces. Is that something that
came to your mind that you could maybe do as well?

[00:14:04] **Bekah:** Yeah. So I went through, I ran a lot of Twitter
spaces myself.

I went through a string of them. I was doing them weekly, and then I started
live streaming, I think instead just trying to get a feel for everything that's
out there. But I think with my job at deep gram, we're going to start doing some
Twitter spaces that I'm really excited about because of the support of the team.

And we can do some really great stuff. Start build community and fill some of
the needs that we see out there in the tech community right now.

[00:14:40] **Michaela:** Yeah. Yeah. And do you think that there's a difference
between a zoom? It assumed seems a little bit more intimate for me because you
know, it's, it's a community that's not completely public it's public, right.

Because people can just respond and be part of it, but to the spaces for me,
just because it's there on Twitter and then you see at least some of the bubbles
and then it's broadcasted through other, you know, sort of followers of the
people that are in there. And so on. People can drop in and go out.

Do you think it's different and, and has a different need or fills a different
need, a different purpose for the condition?

[00:15:15] **Bekah:** I think, you know, there are expectations when you meet
with other people in a small group setting, face-to-face, you know, you, and we
say like, if you want to leave your camera off, if you want to stay muted,
that's totally fine.

If you want to throw things in the chat, that's a great way to communicate as
well. But still you see other people there, whereas Twitter spaces, you can kind
of come in and out. You, there's not the sense of, oh, I have a roll hill here
that I have. Bill because you're not a speaker. You can be a listener.

And so in. Twitter spaces I think is closer to watching a live stream because
you can interact through the chat, but it's a little bit more personal because
if someone's live streaming at Twitch on Twitch, you don't see everybody who is
there, but in Twitter spaces, you can see those other people and they do connect
you.

Other like, you know, if we follow each other, I can see whose space
you're in. I'm like, oh, okay, well, she's there and she's cool. So I'm going to
go check out, you know, what she's listening to. And so there's a, I think a
little bit, maybe more community happening in Twitter spaces, but there's less
like barrier to entry or friction if you're shy or an introvert or, you know,
just kind of want to check something out one time.

[00:16:33] **Michaela:** So another thing that I wanted to talk with you, and I
think they are a little bit connected. One is that, so I looked on your website,
virtualcoffee.io, and there are a couple of people publicly listed. Right. And
apparently there are not all of them. Not everybody wants to be listed there or
it doesn't, it doesn't.

Hasn't edited themselves. But a couple of people are really listed there. And
then I also saw that there are different roles, right? You were also talking
about the different roles for the meetings, but there were two particular ones
that were like labeled there. And one was the, the org Maintainer and the other was
the community maintainer.

So what are those two roles? Is that all the roles that you have and how do you
select people or how are people selecting themselves to be in those

[00:17:25] **Bekah:** roles? Yeah, that's a really great question and it's kind
of evolved over time. We've had so many people step up and offer support and
offer help. And Sarah, McCombs, they were really great support at the beginning
of.

Virtual coffee and, and making sure that we got this stuff done and helping
build out these processes. And when we launched our first HackToberFest, we
had a whole team that was focused on that. And a number of the people who were
on that team ended up coming on as maintainers and. I'm both a, a core
maintainer and a community maintainer and, or a, an org maintainer rather.

And what that means is we kind of look at the overall organization, the health,
the strategy where should we go from here? What decisions need to be made in
terms of the entire organization? I would say the community maintainers are
[00:18:15] looking more at the day-to-day, the community management project
planning that, that kind of more day-to-day focus, I guess, in, in making sure
that the team is supported there.

So we all work together as a core team and we make decisions together and
there's always going to be overlap in all of those things. But it's funny that
you ask about these roles because I was just working on this. Actually we have
some team leads and they should be going up on the site there.

They're already listed there, but. You know, we have leads for our monthly
challenges as Areli, Varo, and Andrew Bush for our audio visual stuff. So
getting things put up on YouTube, helping with live streams, that's bogged in.
For documentation, we just onboarded a new team lead named . Who's absolutely
great.

I met with her this morning to kind of like walk through the process of, you
know, how do we prioritize, what needs documented, where do we put these things?
And she's so great about, you know, asking questions and getting issues up on
the site before I even think about them. So I hope I didn't miss anybody.

I know that, that we work with. A number of other people as well to support the
organization. But I think that, that those will go up on the site soon. We want
to also have like a community health team lead and we're talking to someone
about doing that. Job search is a big thing at virtual coffee.

It doesn't matter what stage you are. Somebody is always looking for a job. And
so we have some great folks who do a lot of work on that. And so, you know, that
might be up on there soon too. So, you know, we're, we're, I think we're in the
phase where we're trying to figure out how do we best support our members and
help provide those leadership opportunities that we want.

[00:20:11] **Michaela:** Yeah. Yeah. So when you describe all of
that, it seems to me this is a full-time full-time job already, but so how much,
how much time does really go into that? I mean, there's the meetings themselves,
right? That you're a participating and I'm even, I'm not part of virtual coffee
because I don't have the time to do it as.

Just as a participant. So I can imagine you have to be at the meetings, you have
to plan the meetings and there's the chat and you're making all this. You have
all these thoughts and meetings also with other members of the community, how to
grow the community, how to, you know, keep it alive and make it healthy.

So how much time off your week goes into that? I can imagine
a lot.

[00:20:53] **Bekah:** I don't know. That's a good question. At some point,
I think. Stopped keeping track of how much time was going into it because it was
a lot and it's not a job, right. It's a volunteer position. But I think, you
know, now we have so many supportive members and with the core team that I'm
able to do, where like we're all able to do a lot more and to lean on each
other.

And to grow in that way. And a lot of the stuff is almost like muscle memory.
Now, you know, I've been doing it for so long that it doesn't feel like it's one
more thing to do. There are always things that, you know, I have a whole board
of things I would love to do for virtual coffee and I have to try and pace
myself because sometimes I go for it anyway, and then I.

fall into something and I'm like, oh, I, I might, I might die after that. So I
try to avoid that feeling now.

[00:21:51] **Michaela:** Yeah, I can imagine. So I have seen on the GitHub page,
there are some, there's some sponsoring going on, right? Is there, are there
other ways that you're monetizing this community or that the community monetize
it itself, that it has some budget around that you can also do cool stuff.

[00:22:06] **Bekah:** So right now, sponsorships, we launched
sponsorships maybe in September. And so up to that point, we were just paying
out of pocket for everything. But sponsorships is the primary way that we cover
our costs. We had a monthly challenge sponsorship, which was nice. We have the
podcast there's opportunities for sponsorship there.

Oh, oh, we just launched a store, so, oh yeah. Cool. That's really exciting.
It's just really exciting to see people like wearing the virtual coffee and
sharing their stickers. So those are some ways that we're, we're working on
covering, covering the cost of what we want to do, and then, you know, hopefully
providing new services and.

[00:22:48] **Michaela:** Yeah. Yeah. I think at one point you have to think about it because
even like this slack is probably not free, right. You have to pay per month
membered and.

[00:22:59] **Bekah:** Nope. So we're on the free version of slack because it
costs, I think $6 per member per month. Yeah. I saw there's no way that we could
cover that.

[00:23:12] **Michaela:** That's so crazy. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So there's a free version of
that as well, because I looked into that, I thought like maybe, you know, slack
channel and it's not like $6. Why am I God, not.

[00:23:26] **Bekah:** Right, right. Discord, discord, we've gone back and forth
about it. It has a lot of great tools. We're just not in love with the user
experience of discord.

But you know, we have class. So one of the things that we have Put a lot of
money into zoom because we have accounts for our core team, but also we have a
coworking room that stays open all the time. So folks can join in slack and the
coworking room is always open. So that's its own account. We, you know,
producing a podcast can be costly you know, producing.

Transcripts and providing the services for that. We've got like Zapier and air
table. So, you know, like we're, we're using all of these tools that we can to
you know, make things a little bit easier for us, but do cost money. And so what
we, we try and keep our costs minimal, but you know, there, there are
some, but I think that we are.

Covered right now for our CA our monthly costs by our sponsorships, which is
really, really great.

[00:24:22] **Michaela:** Yeah. That's really good. Yeah, that's really cool. So what would
you say to the listeners today that would like to, you know, start their own
community, have a community? What would be the MVP, a MVP version of a community
that you, you know, from your experience would.

Suggest to them, should they start with twitter spaces or should they have like
a meeting or a slack or a discord channel, you know, what are the options and
what are the pros and cons for each one of those?

[00:24:51] **Bekah:** That's really a great question. I think that,
first of all, I feel strongly that. You, there are a lot of really great
communities already out there, and a lot of them really need support.

So if you are not all on board and starting your own community, explore some of
those and see how you can help because, you know, you might be able to be on a
core team or something that allows you the experience that you want from that.
So I'm not convinced that every, every person needs to start their own
community.

But I would say that I think trying to fill a need within the community is a
really great way to start one, because if you see that there's a gap or that
people are asking for things, or, you know, like one of the things we've been
doing virtual coffee for almost two years now, and we get the same questions in
our Our zoom sessions.

All the time. And so I can tell that there's a real need for more work, to be
done around interviewing about supporting junior developers, about creating
positive workspaces. So for sure there are. For groups that focus on those
things. And then I would say for me, if you start a slack or a discord, that's
probably the most time-consuming thing that you can do because you
want to keep people engaged.

You want to keep them talking, you need to answer questions. So if you don't
have a core group of people, Then it's going to be really, it's going to be a
lot of work to try and keep up with that. I also think that we're in the
pandemic now and people have been collecting slacks and discords, and when
things in the pandemic start to ease up, we'll see that a lot of those
communities, I think, start to fade off just because, you know, people are going
to prioritize the couple that they'll keep and stay active with.

And, and then they're going to be, you know, doing. In really stuff.

[00:26:55] **Michaela:** Yeah. Yeah. Which is good. I'm I'm waiting for that.

[00:26:59] **Bekah:** Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, thinking about like, okay, maybe you
want to then create some kind of hybrid model or, you know, do an online meetup
that translates into an in-person thing. Or if you, if in-person is not your
thing, then, you know, figure out how you can build your online environment
around that.

I think it's tricky because it's not one size fits all, but you know, in-person
or async, if you're a really async person, then, then slack or discord is a
great way to go. So yeah, there's, there's a lot, there's a lot there. Yeah.

[00:27:27] **Michaela:** I think it probably really about personality as well. I
think a lot of people really enjoy.

Writing and, you know, participating in this estrone coroners conversation, even
though they are often very synchronous right in discord. That's why I always
feel like I missed that conversation. Oh, I missed that conversation as well.
And then I just leave without writing anything like anyway, so the last question
that I have for you is you just started as a technical community, like.

What, what are you doing dead? Are you doing actually the same thing that you
just learned yourself? And you're not like your master now and the expert here
for, for deep gram or what's your role there?

[00:28:04] **Bekah:** Yeah, it's kind of, I feel like it's such, it's
been such a good fit for me. My background, I spent 10 years teaching college
English.

And so deep gram is a speech to text. AI company. And so there, there are so
many different experts in different fields there. So, you know, whether it's
data science or linguistics or engineering and, you know, the DevRel team I get
to talk to everybody and. Understand where they're coming from, but I sit on the
DevREL team as a technical community builder, so I can do DevRel-y things.

I can write if I want to, I can contribute code, but my focus is on creating
those systems and processes for community and the external community at deep
gram. I always say that your community starts with the internal community. You
want to make sure that you have a strong internal community before trying to
start an external community, because you have to have that support network to
help you and that trust to be in guidance.

So I'm doing. You know, some educating, I am doing well, hopefully some speaking
in the near future and hopefully some writing and building out that community
strategy and trying to figure out, you know, where, how can we. Fill a need in
the tech community or how can we support existing communities out there?

So it is, it's pretty much a mixture of everything I've ever done in my life to
this point. And it's been really fun in the first three weeks now having a team
to work with them.

[00:29:36] **Michaela:** Yeah, it sounds super exciting. Yeah. I can't imagine
everything coming together for you. And you can really strive now with the
competencies that you, I think not only developed you probably had already from
the beginning, right?

Because it's not something that you. You make the first virtual coffee? I think
a lot of people did that and then it grows into something that's, you know, so
probably not in the deaf community as well, so well rounded. So yeah, so
congratulations to that. And thank you so much for sharing so much
about the process and about virtual coffee, how it worked.

Yeah, I really enjoyed it. Is there something that you want to tell our
listeners? Maybe how can they sign up for virtual coffee? He said, you know, do
you, do you have to have some commitment there or accountability?

[00:30:26] **Bekah:** That's a great question. So we make everybody come to at
least one virtual coffee for before getting an invitation into our slack and
that's to, you know, help them experience, you know, our community and to see
what it's like, because, you know, we feel that we demonstrate that pretty well
in those meetings.

And so it's really. Figuring out if it's in the community for you, because it's
not the community for everyone, we all have different needs and, and things that
we like. And don't like, and so if it's for you, then it's great. Then join our
slack, fill out our new member form. You can find those events at virtualcoffee.io/events .

So come and check out a virtual coffee and then.

[00:31:10] **Michaela:** Yeah, cool. I will link everything in the show notes.
And thank you so much for talking to me being here today with me. I enjoyed it.

[00:31:14] **Bekah:** Great. Thanks so much. I'm going to, can I mention one more
thing? Yeah, sure. I just want to say to 'em if you follow deep gram devs on
Twitter, I think we'll be running some very cool Twitter spaces through there
soon.

So if you want to check out some Twitter spaces, you can do that as well. And
thank you so much for having me. This has been great.

[00:31:35] **Michaela:** Yeah, I really loved it. Okay. Thank you for caring. Thank you. Bye

[00:31:38] **Bekah:** bye.
