---
episode: "Transcript Being an engineering manager was not for me"
permalink: /no-engineering-manager
status: publish
type: transcript
---

[00:00:00] **Michaela:** Hello and welcome to the software engineering analog
podcast. I'm your host, Dr. Michaela and today I have the pleasure to talk to
Nicholas Dular, a senior software engineer at GitLab. But before I start, let
me tell you a little bit about my latest project awesomecodereviews.com.
Yeah. All my work on code reviews has now its own dedicated home at awesomecodeviews.com.

You find articles about code reviews, code reviews, best practices, code review,
checklists news about the latest research on code reviews and of course
workshops and courses I offer around this topic. So please hop over to awesomecodereviews.com
and check out my latest work. But now back to Nicholas,
Nicholas is a senior full stack engineer at GitLab.

Before joining GitLab, he was a senior software engineer at PSPkit. And today I
want to talk with him about his experience, becoming an engineering manager.
Like many, Nicholas was dreaming of advancing his career in this direction. But
after one year he had to come clear with himself that , this role is not what
you wanted to do long term.

so he changed back to an individual contributor role. I'm so excited to talk
with him today about his experience. So Nicholas, welcome to this show. Great to have you here.

[00:01:15] **Nicolas:** Thank you. Hello and welcome Michaela. Thanks
for having me really excited to talk to you today.

[00:01:17] **Michaela:** Yeah, I know. One year, so we are friends,
right?

And one year ago you were telling me about this awesome role that you're now in
that you're an engineering manager and I know that at the beginning it was a
little bit like stress ,hectic. Obviously you had to, you know, learn new things. But
now you're back. How did that all come about and what were you expecting of this
role and why didn't it work out as you, as you actually planned?

[00:01:43] **Nicolas:** Yeah. I'm where, where to start. So last year in 2021 in
May, I finally had the opportunity to become a manager. So I always told my
manager, I want to step up be a manager. I like taking our responsibilities.
Mm-hmm like taking over, like helping others and overviewing projects. So I
thought that this is the logical step for me.

Right. Yeah, then now we are here again one year afterwards and I'm back at the
actual position I started at GiLab and I what happens? So I, I had the
opportunity to try, try it out first. This is one of the principles of GitLab.
You can be an acting engineering manager. So I tried it out if I wanted I,
after first three months, I said like, yeah, this actually is nice.

I do something different now after being a developer for 10 years. And then I
thought let's go for being an interim engineering mentor where I can gain
experience for the actual promotion. And so I did this as well. And yeah, after
six months I thought like, yeah, I, I will go for the promotion and I got
promoted.

It was amazing. But after like six, seven months, I, I then like realized, oh,
this is maybe not what I, I wanted it after all. And yeah, that's that made the
hard decision to actually step back. And everyone who is the manager says
like, this is a completely different job. And when you are not a manager, want to
become one, you think like, yeah, of course Amy, it's a manager, it's not an
engineer, but what it actually means is it's a really different job.

And I think you need to try to self actually to experience that.

[00:03:22] **Michaela:** Yeah. So this sounds all really interesting because so
you first. Say you want to try something out. So is everybody allowed to try
something out? Like if I'm a junior engineer, can I try out to be a engineering
manager or do I have to be already somewhat capable or like, yeah.

I don't know how to phrase it. I,

[00:03:41] **Nicolas:** I think you need to be a senior engineer. You might, I
might be able also take trying it out as an intermediate. I'm not 100% sure
though. So please don't quote me and we have an open handbook, so I'm sure
that's in there. okay. Yeah, and otherwise you can try it out and go back and
that's, that's the nice part.

So I wanted it, but I always wanted to be able to go back all the time and
mm-hmm, being an acting interim manager gave me this opportunity to mm-hmm just
go back if I want to,

[00:04:11] **Michaela:** .Yeah. I'm, I'm interested in this concept of, of
trying something out, like how, oh yeah.

How is that communicated? Like if you are an engineer, a senior engineer and you
want to be an engineering manager must there be a position that you can try it
out? Yeah. Or not.

[00:04:25] **Nicolas:** Yeah. So for. For moving between different roles, like
from an engineer to a designer, like this is harder to try it out.

Like you, you need to, you can't try it out. But management is something you can
try out, especially in engineering function, you have to sew. There needs to be,
of course the opportunity mm-hmm as a team grows, they need a new manager and,
but maybe don't have one or like there's a reorg, you need to split teams.

Mm-hmm, something like that. And if you like talk with the manager, they can
promote you to be an acting engineering manager for this time. It's also, I
think, kept him to a specific date like three or six months mm-hmm . And after that, you
can decide depending on the company, if there's a need for a management
position.

Okay. As, as I stepped back to be an IC again fortunately one of my direct
reports back then they stepped up step up and be an engineering manager,
although they knew like they never want to become one. Okay. It's totally fine.
But they wanted to have this experience and try it out. So it's perfect.

Perfect opportunity. Right.

[00:05:30] **Michaela:** So you're stepping back. They're looking, they don't have
to immediately have one because another person. Act as an engineering manager,
they can try it out. Or the baby is also talking here so they can try it out.
And then when, while you're hiring, for example, internally or externally, and
then you're stepping back when the other person is ready to. Exactly. Exactly.
Yeah. Okay. Yeah. This is really interesting. So what happened in this time?
Because first you had like this acting and you were thinking, it's fine.

You mm-hmm, went over to become an intermediate one and then even a full
engineering manager. Yeah. And then you realized it's not what you want to do.
How, how was this process? What were the task and why did you, you know, why did
it change?

[00:06:21] **Nicolas:** Yeah, it In the beginning, there was so many things I
had to learn.

So I was completely focusing on that. And after some time, like eight or nine
months, like there's definitely enough things I could have learned, but I then
was able to more focus on like, how am I as a manager? Like, what do I like
about this job? I was able to. Step back once again and, and evaluate. And the
first weeks were like super exciting and overwhelming.

And as I said, like, it's a different job. You jump between projects. You, you
need to learn to delegate, be better communication. And what I noticed though,
I'm like, one of this is one of the things, so. I'm more of an introvert. And I
like, like, you can, I can sit on the screen for 10 hours and back one buck and
fix it and I'm happy.

mm-hmm but as an, also as an engineer at GitLab, we maybe have like one to two
hours of meetings per week. Which is amazing. It allows you like to have enough
Aing time and like deeply focused. But as a manager, you mostly spent your time
in meetings. So I had one of ones. I had eight direct reports.

So I was in meetings for 10 to 14 hours. And this sounds maybe in like, not many
hours for other managers, but for me, it was a lot as an introvert. Mm-hmm so.
This drained me, I was sometimes it was Wednesday and I was already drained for
this whole week cause of, of these meetings. And so, that was definitely
the one factor for me.

And another one is this emotional burden actually like I wouldn't, I burden is
maybe the wrong word here, but it costs more emotional. Time for myself small
things happen, like a direct report tells you something and you somehow have to
this emotional part that you want to deal with, or you also have maybe
interviewing someone and reject the candidate, like reject the candidate mm-hmm
and this was hard for me.

And so it cost it ,cost me emotional energy all the day long. And I'm. I'm just
not the right person for this. It seems. And one of the things I talked to
another back then, interim manager. She, she's amazing. And so we talked with each
other and she was telling me like, yeah, one-on-ones are the best things of my
day.

And I get so energized by that. And I was there after my third day of one on
ones and said, like, I can't anymore. I can't do this. Tell worrying me so much
energy. Although I like talking with people and like all of them, it's just
harder for me. So I saw, okay, maybe I'm not the right person for this job.

They are definitely the right person, but I'm not because I don't get energized
by it. It costs me more energy than I get from it.

[00:09:02] **Michaela:** Yeah. I think it's really important to, to feel your
own energy level. Right. Not being, you know, so. And taken away by what I'm
supposed to do, or, you know, people are supposed to be get, you know, a manager
role and, you know, it's an next step up in your career and yeah.

And then you're overlooking that you're actually not feeling really good about
it. Right. I think this is really is a, it's probably a. A problem that a lot of
people have or a mistake that a lot of people do, right. That they feel like,
oh, this is so important. And you know, I have this nice title and, you know,
shiny and maybe, I don't know, maybe more, more salary if you are a manager,
right?

[00:09:43] **Nicolas:** Yeah, exactly. And I, after stepping back, I, I really
noticed, I, I don't care too much about the title anymore. I mean, I also would
say that at GitLab, the title is not, not so super important. Mm-hmm we, you
can influence and change things, even though like you maybe an a junior or
intermediate engineer, it doesn't really matter, like as long, like what the
content matters a lot.

And so that, that was no advantage there in, in that sense. Mm-hmm and I then
step back on those thinking, do I want to become a staff engineer? You know, and
my answer was initially, well, If I get to it, maybe, but it's not what I need
to have. I don't need staff title now. I'm just happy to work on something
that I care about and that's it.

That, that's my goal, actually. It's not the title itself. So I learned this as
well after, after stepping back. Yeah. Yeah. And I think it's

[00:10:39] **Michaela:** it. It's very natural. When I was at university, I also
always dreamt of this, you know, career and going up the corporate ladder and
all these titles and, you know, it, it, some, it seemed as something that we
should strive for.

Like also the the marks that we get in school, right? You want the one, or, you
know, an A in, in another country and so on, right. Another B and so on . And so
it also seemed for me that this is important. And over the time I realized,
actually it's not that important. Right. It's important if you are energized by
what you're doing.

Yeah. If you feel good and then you're getting also better at it, right. Because
if it's taking your energy, you can spend a lot of energy mm-hmm , but because you're
not getting it back, you know, it's, it's not, you know, it's not self it's not
sustainable. Let's put it that way. That's

[00:11:27] **Nicolas:** absolutely. I it's, it's mostly about energy management,
not about time management or something.

And I, I then also was thinking, what is the actual career progression? So I
already didn't enjoy, like being a manager too much. Like what would be the next
step maybe? Senior senior manager or director. And I didn't see myself at all in
this position. I like it's, it's even more stressed. I, I don't know how
directors and any, everyone like even managers do it, like how they can deal
with it.

I, as I said, like, I'm the wrong person for this job! Although like, I. At
least to, to save myself a bit, like I got good feedback. People seem to like me
as a manager and I hopefully did great work at least based on the feedback, but
I also didn't enjoy it. And then as I saw also, you can do good work, but it
doesn't matter really.

It, it matters like how you feel and yeah, so. Looking back at the engineering
progression as a, as an IC. Okay. Maybe I could go to staff, maybe there's
something above there, but I don't care too much on one side. But on the other
side, if I would be able to go get there, it's fine. Like IC, this is still an
individual contributor role.

It's a different job. So I saw like, okay, career progression wise, I educate
to, to go this letter instead of.

[00:12:41] **Michaela:** Yeah. Yeah. And I think I, what you were saying about it, doesn't,
it doesn't matter so much how good you are at what you're doing, but it's also
important how you feel right. Mm-hmm I was working in a nursing home when I was
still back in school during the, the summer break and.

I believe that I was really, really nice to the people and I did a really good
job there. But it was just breaking me. I was sad every day. I, it was
emotionally so draining. And I probably was one of the nicest nurses there.
Right. Yeah. And, and maybe did the best job, but I couldn't, I, I wasn't able
to do it.

And I always got. I always got sick, really, really sick, like high fever. So
like the bunny telling me, you know, you can't go in there anymore. It's like,
it's too depressing. And too. Yeah. And so, yeah, as you're saying, it doesn't
mean that if you're not doing your manager job, that you are not good at it, it
just means that it wasn't the right thing for you.

Yeah. In, in that time. And I think that it can maybe change also over time. If
it's due to external factors, maybe, right. Maybe you're not right now, not in
the right place to do something. Right. And it absolutely could be not only a
manager or individual contributor role, but something else maybe. Right.

But you have to travel, right. Let's say traveling is part of your job then
sometimes it could be that this is. The right thing for you to do. I enjoy
traveling a lot. Mm-hmm , you know, couple of years back and right now, you
know, I, at one point I was also sick of little bit of traveling, like being in
these photo rooms alone and then there comes a new time and you think like now
traveling could be, you know, something that I enjoy again.

[00:14:20] **Nicolas:** Absolutely. Yeah.

[00:14:21] **Michaela:** I also want to come back to something that you were
talking about, and this is first, I was so occupied with learning, you know,
this new skills and what I have to do. And so on. I think this is also extremely
valuable that it's not from day one, that you know something, but you have to
grow into that role.

And then you were saying, I took a step back. I think this is so important.
Right. So how, how was that exactly for you?

[00:14:45] **Nicolas:** It, it took vacation to, to get to this step, actually.
Yeah, in the, the beginning, I am so grateful for the team. I, I started in this
team. I knew nothing about the geneology anything.

And I just observed, I asked them like I, in the first, and the second week
I made a three pH long questionnaire for the team like, Hey, how is this
actually working? And it was actually nice because this is the initial effect
you have, you have no idea. And I'm, I like being naive. I like being asking
these naive questions because I later, like half a year later saw, oh, my
questions were leading to something where we maybe should work on.

Yeah. Mm-hmm . Yeah. So after half a year or something, and I took a longer
break, like a two week vacation, and then I saw this immediate, like stress
relief. And I was then like clearly seeing also with my partner. Okay. I'm
feeling much, much better and happier now that I'm away, but from the stress
and.

I maybe I should rethink, but at this point I was still thinking, but that's
what I always wanted. Like last 10 years, I was always okay. I go for management
at some point and breaking this mindset was, was tough for me. But I also saw it
made me much more happier now and relieved after stepping back, and back then
when I went for the promotion, I still saw.

I have this impact. Like I can help others. I can see them grow. I can help the
team to be, to work better maybe, hopefully. And I saw like, okay, while I'm
suffering somehow as, as I'm stressed, I also see like how much more impact that
can have and how the nice parts of the roles are. And so I was still going for
it because yeah, I liked it.

[00:16:27] **Michaela:** what I'm also interested in is how did the others, you
know, feel about it? I can imagine, like, so what I understood is that it's not
your team that you stepped up, right? Like it's your team and now you're
becoming a manager. And so it's your direct colleagues that now you are a
superior of sort of yeah.

But you went to another team, but still, how did you ex how. How did you
experience that? Being a new manager, having to learn all of that and then, you
know, interacting with the other people

[00:16:56] **Nicolas:** mm-hmm yeah, I, I made it clear from the
beginning that I'm not the expert, I'm learning this role as I'm going.

So please give me feedback. And I had some people who gave me honest feedback,
and I really appreciate that. And I'll also work with her product manager quite
close, and she gave me like we had weekly one-on-ones she gave me feedback on
what I should maybe do different because she has experience working with other
managers.

So I was always pretty key. Like I'm learning. Please give me feedback. I'm
sorry if I missed something I trust try to be better every day. This and I never
felt being superior or anything that that was always for me, like I'm here to
serve the team. Mm-hmm like, whatever we try to do, I will help you.

That was my. My perspective on how, how, like I see management, like you provide
context, you help them, like you try to make everything more efficient. Like you
help people when they are stuck. And yeah, that's, that's how I saw this role.

[00:17:51] **Michaela:** That's really nice framing. I liked it a lot. Did you
feel that you have to be somehow evolve also, you know, from, from even higher
up management to the team that you're shielding them a little bit from, you
know, something that could distract them or, you know, from something that.

[00:18:07] **Nicolas:** I expected it that this is part of the mens shop mm-hmm
and maybe it is I didn't perceive this as, at all team a lot. Like we had great
product management who had a clear direction. And like, so it was totally clear
what we want to do. There was nothing I could, I should defend the team on like
that, that barely happened.

So. That was most nice to see, like as part of the culture, I guess then.

[00:18:34] **Michaela:** Yeah.
Cool. So what about GitLab itself? Is there some training
that you go through when you're doing that? Or, you know, you just read on the
internet, some blogs about how management works and then you do your job or

[00:18:46] **Nicolas:** yeah. A mix actually in that case, because with
everything, everything at get, everything is documented.

Like most of the things are documented. And when you are starting at GitLab, you
have this huge onboarding issue where you go through all the tasks, you like
create accounts, like you read up on how to work with GitLab. And it's pretty
much the same as a manager. Like you have this huge onboarding issue where they
provide you with resources, like maybe read this blog posts about like how to
manage, maybe read this.

And I think after five or six months, we also had initiative to for new managers
and actually existing managers as well, like to become a better manager. Like we
have this had this group every week, we had one hour meeting of like, learning
about like management and different traits for manager, like how you are as a
manager, how you coach someone.

And we have had the small groups, we had resources. And so. There was a lot of
support in that regard from a resource perspective. And like, I also had a
meeting, a one-on-one with two managers every week who were in the same position
going from acting to entering to actual manager. So we were talking about how
they perceive the role right now.

And it's, it's so nice to you see other perspectives. Everyone has different
issues that have to deal with. And so you see other. Management chops at, at get
level. It's it's so nice to see you can exchange like, Hey, I had this issue.
How did you deal with this? For example, I tried to communicate better to the
team.

And then one of the other managers, managers told me like, yeah, he creates an
issue every week to inform the team about all the updates they should know
about. I was thinking, this is genius. So this is coming from another department
and I implemented it in, in my team back then, and it helped the team so much.

They really appreciated it. So they were clear, like if they read this issue,
they know everything they should know and all the context for this week. And
this is like this small things that you pick up by talking to the others and.
Gain more experience of this was, this was really nice. Yeah.

[00:20:46] **Michaela:** But so this is more crowd knowledge, right?

So that you have to pick up yourself and, and look around. I wonder if there is
something like for engineering, very often organizations have some consistency,
right? They say, oh, we use. GitLab. And we use a CI/CD pipeline and we use,
you know, this Paul checker and this linter, and, and then somehow this becomes
similar across the organization, not in every organization, obviously, but But,
you know, even, you know, you go there and these are the steps and these are the
processes that we are doing stuff.

Mm-hmm is that similar for managers? Is there something like that says, oh, you
should have one, one on one with each of your reports.

[00:21:29] **Nicolas:** Oh yeah. For something as, as you can imagine with. With
everything being documented, mostly at GitLab in the handbook, you find
everything there, like how, how often you should have one on ones with your
mentors, like how the one-on-ones should be structured.

What are the good questions you should ask? How you, then we have. Tools to like
maybe have, have all the metrics for a team, then we have OK. Tooling of course,
and like how to write OKRs and how to form them. And so yes, everything there
is like very well defined and documented. Like there's.

But it helps you a lot as a new manager, I was not knowing like, what should I
do? And there's like a clear guidance. Like, this is how we want you to work. Or
like, it's more like a, this is how we think we should work. Of course you can
change things. I barely use the format that we have, cuz I like the different
format in the 101 document.

I, yeah, so you can of course speak things, but there's definitely a guideline
for, for how to, how to perform things

[00:22:26] **Michaela:** Okay. Cool. So another question that I
had for you, you were talking about eight direct reports and this is a lot, I
mean, I hear of engineering managers in the first year and they have one direct
report or like two direct reports. So it feels like understandably you're very
drained with eight direct in, you know, like I would even say with eight direct.

Reports. This is like the max of a team mm-hmm size. Like then you should be the
manager of a manager already or something like this. Was that there from the
beginning, like this, or is that normal that you know, managers have so many
direct reports.

[00:23:03] **Nicolas:** I, I would need to look up the numbers but. It's
definitely on the higher end mm-hmm

And I also had to, to hire 2, 3, 3 engineers actually during my time. So people
moved teams of course. And so you need to rehire and it's. I was thinking at
beginning, like all our eight engineers immediately to, to manage on the other
side. Let's pretend I would've had three or four engineers.

Mm-hmm this gives you unfortunately, exactly enough time. Like maybe three, four
hours per week more where you're thinking, oh, maybe I should code. And this is
definitely what you should not do as a manager, as a new one. I stopped coding
immediately after I started. And. If I would've just had like three, four
reports, even though it's overwhelming and you shouldn't have time to code you,
maybe think you have mm-hmm

So I was actually happy with full blown, a full team already with eight
engineers. I couldn't even think of coding. So this helped me like to be in the
role completely at 100% immediately.

[00:24:04] **Michaela:** And did you miss it? The coding.

[00:24:06] **Nicolas:** Yes that that's. And I I've written this in my blog
post, so one of our common friends, right.

I, I talked to him like 10 years ago and he asked me like, what do you want to
do? And I said, yeah, I want to be a manager. And he just laugh at me and said
like, nah, you, you like programming too much. You will, you realize that at
some point. And it's so nice to create things. And yeah, he was right, Martin.

Right. Martin.

[00:24:26] **Michaela:** Exactly. Yeah. And, and I think you have to realize
that at one point, I, for example, I really like things start things and then
see that it's, it's becoming something, right. Like we can't touch it obviously.
Right. But it feels like we can touch it. We can strive it probably right
around, click it with the mouse or something.

And as a manager, I think it's more of a More of a task. It never ends. Right.
So it's, it's, it's, you know, there's a problem. Then you solve it maybe half
because it's not always solvable, you know, and going on and so on.

[00:25:01] **Nicolas:** Right. Exactly. And, and you need to be so careful to
not get through details. So when you're at a meeting and there's a problem, As
an engineer, you just jump on it, like, say this is the solution I think we
have.

Yeah. And as an engineering manager, you hold yourself yourself back to the very
end, let everyone talk and don't propose anything that could team lead to think
like, oh, this is how we need to do it. Cuz you. Although, like, I didn't feel
like I I'm in this manager position and I had the feeling like my word counts
now much, much more.

And if I said like, say we should do it that way, maybe it's just an opinion,
but stated as fact that we should do it. And yeah, as an engineer, it's
easier. You just Talk, and you spin off ideas with others. And as a manager, you
should be careful about doing this and this. And, and essentially you're not the
one doing the work.

If I say, ah, just rec refactor the service, there could be so many edge cases.
I, I will not think about because I'm not the one in the code and who knows
everything about.

[00:26:01] **Michaela:** Yeah. And so how did you feel about people having problems
and coming to you? Did they even come to you with their problems and telling you
like this and that.

[00:26:11] **Nicolas:** Yeah. Absolutely. So I enjoyed this the most, every
time, same someone came in 1 0 1 and said, I'm stuck on this. Or I'm I'm I'm
yeah. Depend doesn't matter like how they are stuck, even if it's just
personally with how they work mm-hmm or if it's a technical problem. I love
being, there's this phrase of being a rubber duck.

I love this. I just ask questions because I'm so naive often to things. And so I
ask right questions, questions, apparently. So this was the favorite part of my
job, talking with the engineers through technical issues, seeing them grow and
that this was absolutely the favorite part of my job.

[00:26:47] **Michaela:** Yeah. Yeah.

Okay. And where are some issues where you felt like. Absolutely overwhelming.
You were talking a little bit about hiring and then making the decision not to
hire somebody. Yeah. So what are other difficult decisions that you had
experienced as a manager for situations?

[00:27:04] **Nicolas:** So, one thing this is part of our management training.

One of the first things was you are not their therapist. And people come with
problems to you to tell you about problems. And I ideally I do this as well.
Like I tell my manager, Hey, I'm not effective to speak in this case because
it's so hot in Austria right now. But maybe about something personal I'm I'm
struggling with and as a manager I do not recommend going into, into deaf hear.

Like, you should hear them, you should tell them like, Hey, I understand you.
And it's totally okay, but I'm not the right person to, to talk through this.
Right. We fortunately have services at, at GitLab that can help, like we have
modern health, for example where you have coaching sessions and therapist
sessions.

They came to provide it, or my immediate resolution was always please take time
off. As we have unlimited PTO it's it was an easy solution to step back, step
back, maybe. and yeah, this was definitely the, the, the emotional part that was
hard on me. And as you mentioned, rejecting someone, a candidate, I was in the
same position as they are when I interviewed at GitLab or other companies and I
got rejected of course, and it feels so hard on, on one side and the other
side's just.

No, I'm sorry. We will not go forward. Move forward with you. But on the other
side, there's a, maybe a world that breaks up at some to some degree and yeah.
This, this is tough for me.

[00:28:26] **Michaela:** Yeah. I can also imagine like if you're. Telling no
to somebody from external. It's challenging, but I can also imagine that in your
team, let's say somebody has a problem and they have a problem for longer time
and you see that it's really impacting their work and mm-hmm, , it's impacting
their work long term.

Then you probably also have to act. Right.

[00:28:45] **Nicolas:** That's, that's the thing that I didn't like about this
job in the end. I have such a hard time when there's someone struggling and. You
need to act, but when it's the right time, like right, you, you it's, and I
never wanted to do this have to, to do this decision.

And yeah, that's, that's why I am fortunate to back again and not need to do
this.

[00:29:10] **Michaela:** It must be so hard, right? Like, because. as, as you
said, when is the right time? Now you say, oh, take one week off. And then, you
know, you still see that the performance is not, you know, that good and
absolutely are distracted.

And then at one point you have to do something, but what are you going to do?
Yeah.

[00:29:27] **Nicolas:** Yeah, I see this with myself and like when I'm not
feeling well and the tele manager case, of course, some point like after a few
weeks, or maybe if it takes longer and I'm not productive because of some
personal issue, I, it must be so hard for them.

Like how do they evaluate me then? Like, Just, and it doesn't look good on like
what I'm producing, like how do, when do they make the cut and that's, that's a
tough thing. And that's why, what I never want to, to decide on. Yeah.

[00:29:55] **Michaela:** Yeah. So I have a, a tricky question for you now that
you have seen both sides, right?

Mm-hmm should we be honest about struggling or should we hide? Because there's
like, you could go and say, oh, I'm really struggling. You know, maybe I have
headaches still from, let's say COVID or something. Mm-hmm do you still have
this headache? Right. And should you, should you tell it, or, you know, I, I
think like after three weeks I would be very resistant to still say I'm still
having headaches.

Like there comes this point where you think, should I, should I still say it?

[00:30:26] **Nicolas:** I maybe I'm to influence like how I mean gets, get has
this transparency value mm-hmm that is very deep in our culture and in our
values, actually. So I'm also on the team. Be honest all the time. And in this
case always be honest with your manager.

And this is a lesson that I also learned. So. Your manager doesn't know every,
everything like they can't mind to read you. Yeah. And so they need to know. And
when I tell 'em, Hey, I'm struggling a bit with some personal issues, it will
resolve in a few weeks or, or whatever. They know like when, for example, look
at data and see, oh, someone is not delivering or someone is not performing, you
know?

Oh, there has a reason to this. It's. You need to figure out is it will or skill
and mm-hmm if it's actually will and skill still there, but it's just impossible
right now. You, you can understand it. And yeah, it's so much more important to,
to just tell them like, Hey, that's going up. I know about it. Because otherwise
how, as a manager, let's see, you see a decrease in decrease in performance.

Mm-hmm , it's also a half conversation to do, right? Yeah. So. if you come up
with, Hey, you're not performing well after two months you you're telling
someone and then you have this maybe even awkward conversation where someone
tells you, well, I'm not doing well and feeling well. And it would've been much,
much better to know upfront.

Yeah. And I was super lucky. So I had the feeling, I had the safe space with all
my direct reports and they were able to tell me everything. And this was
invaluable.

[00:31:56] **Michaela:** Yeah. So. One thing I, that comes to my mind when, when we
are talking about this is also evaluating other people. Right. I feel that
mm-hmm , this is not always easy, especially if we are talking about large
numbers.

Right. So when I was working with PhDs, for example, at Microsoft, and we had
this very close one on one relationship, right. I didn't have like more than two
PhDs to mm-hmm , you know, to supervise and to work with, then it was extremely
easy to say, well, you know, this is the performance of the person and it wasn't
even like an abstract.

It was, we were working together. Right. Mm-hmm . And so there wasn't really an
evaluation. It was more like you know, maybe there's some, you know, skills that
they could improve or you help them a little bit in this direct, or, but on the
other hand, when I was teaching at university, we have a class of, let's say, 50.

It's so difficult to even, you know, you know, there are a couple of people,
again, I think that this is human mind, right? So let's say again, 5, 8, 10
people that you know, and then you, you feel, you are very confident about
knowing their skills and you know, where they are. and then there are these 40
others that, you know, I felt like it's an educated guess and you really had to
have some well, some instruments like tests mm-hmm to, to judge, you know, their
skills or their bills and so on.

So how was that for you with these eight direct reports? I think eight is, you
know, large enough that it's already hard maybe to evaluate and to think, you
know, am I correct here with my assessment or,

[00:33:27] **Nicolas:** yeah, I think eight's still possible. But. With eight
people it's still possible. But what I noticed though is when I was in IC, I
thought, oh, every merge request I'm, I'm working on like my manager will look
over that or every issue mm-hmm

And after one week in the role I noticed like, it's absolutely not possible to,
to do this. I glimpsed at a few merge requests sometimes, especially when we
talked about some, someone being blocked, but the sense here. A manager doesn't
like, he's they see outcomes. Mm-hmm but not like daily work. And this makes it
actually hard.

Like for example, there's an engineer, senior engineer, very great at what
they're doing. And the output is rather maybe low as on a metric level. Like
maybe not enough code that gets shipped, but they are helping everyone, the team
and make everyone the team better. This is where it strikes with like metrics
and you don't see this initially, like, yeah, I didn't see that they have had a
call the whole afternoon with someone else and helping them mm-hmm so that's
sometimes quite good.

And to do also tell your manager, like, Hey, you had this call, like, and you
help someone. Cause its Hard to notice otherwise. And so this helped, but
otherwise I, I say, I agree. It's it's, it comes to a degree of eight people
that you don't see everything it's harder to evaluate everyone. Yeah.

[00:34:50] **Michaela:** YEah. And I think, and also some people are better at
promoting themselves.

Right. Let's saying, oh, you know, I have this person and I did actually this
and I shipped over there and look at this wonderful call I made mm-hmm and
another person maybe did even more. But they don't. So for example, for me in an
organization, it's always really hard. Like I forget about, you know, writing an
email saying, oh, you know, this wonderful thing that I did over here.

Mm-hmm I'm, I'm just doing it. And so I feel that as a manager, this must be
also really hard to feel like you're fairly evaluating everybody on the team and
so on.

[00:35:23] **Nicolas:** I mean, that's where at least the peer reviews come
in, so we have peer reviews and. You get the 360 feedback from others. And when
you then read these feedbacks, you at least notice like, oh, someone telling the
other engineer, Hey, thanks for helping me so often.

And then you see this, so 360 feedbacks are very valuable for this case. Yeah.

[00:35:42] **Michaela:** Yeah. You like them as a manager, you like them, did you like?
Yeah, I like them. As an engineer, as an individual contributor, you like them

[00:35:49] **Nicolas:** an individual contributor. I had a harder time to
evaluate my peers. Mm-hmm that?

That's the issue. So you want to be nice to someone, but you also want to help
them to grow. So there's a trade off and I think they're anonymous. They're
definitely anonymous at GitLab. So , I think you only know who evaluated you
evaluated you as a manager, but not who is appeared that who evaluate evaluated
you mm-hmm yeah, at least at least there's that.

[00:36:16] **Michaela:** So I think. What we can sum up here is that it's
actually a great experience being a engineering manager for some time, because
probably now look at things in a much more different way. You understand, you
know, the, the problems that engineering managers have. You can also understand
how you can help them, maybe see your potential or you know, what you're doing,
your impact and also maybe.

Have a better understanding of KPIs that I, I don't think that a lot of
engineers like them, or, you know, this, this reviews that we have, that you
understand why this instrument is actually valuable for a person that sits in a
quite different role and has quite different tasks. Right.

[00:36:57] **Nicolas:** Absolutely. I, I now have a much, much better feeling
what an engineering venture does and like what they do and how it impacts me.

So when we talk about KPIs, I know these are not here to blame me or when I need
to do status, I plates on something. It's not about me telling like, oh, I'm
late on, on something. Or I didn't deliver in time. It's about just knowing and
there's barely any emotional part of on, on this. this helped me a lot.

I, I, I'm such a better communicator now. Because I just tell like, Hey, that's
just the state. That's the status? I believe it will be shipped next. Everyone
was happy and super happy with that. And I was always feeling, oh no, I let them
down because it's not ready today. I, I will delay my status update until it's
ready.

And this doesn't never the good, the best decision, because it's much, much
better to have transparency and more information. So yeah, it, I love this
pendulum, like the swing. There's a good blog post about this pendulum of going
from IC to manager and back, and maybe even dementia again. Because you see this
different context and learn so much.

Yeah.

[00:38:03] **Michaela:** Is that from charity you major? I think right from honey pot.

[00:38:06] **Nicolas:** I'm need to check up we this yeah.

[00:38:09] **Michaela:** Cool.

Cool. So thank you so much, Nicholas, for sharing everything. I found it super
interesting and inspiring. And yeah, I will link the blog post that we talked
about your blog post that you wrote about this experience as well.

And everything else that's important in the show notes.

[00:38:26] **Nicolas:** Yeah, thank thank you a lot, Michaela. It was exciting to
be here. Thanks for having me. Yeah, it was my pleasure. Appreciate it. Okay.

[00:38:32] **Michaela:** Thank you. Have a good day. Bye-bye

[00:38:34] **Nicolas:** thank you. Goodbye.
