---
episode: "Transcript Making security easier for developers"
permalink: /easier-security
status: publish
type: transcript
---

[00:00:00] **Michaela:** Hello and welcome to The Software Engineering Unlocked
Podcast. I'm your host, Dr. McKayla. And today I have the pleasure to talk to
Harshit Chitalia. But before I start, let me tell you about my latest project,
awesomecodereviews.com. Yeah, all my work on contributes has now its dedicated
home.

At [awesomecodereviews.com](https://www.awesomecodereviews.com), you will find
articles about code review best practices, code review checklists, news about
the latest research on code reviews, and of course workshops and courses that I
offer around this topic. So, please hop over to
[awesomecodereviews.com](https://www.awesomecodereviews.com) and check out my
latest work.

But now, back to Harshit. Harshit is the co-founder and CTO of Tromzo. And he's
on today to share his knowledge on how to make security easier for developers.
Before starting Tromzo, Harshit spent eight years as director of engineering at
Juniper Networks where he experienced first-hand how frustrating security can
be for developers. So I'm super, super thrilled to have Harshit here with me
today.

Harshit, welcome to the show.

[00:01:04] **Harshit:** Thank you for having me. I'm really excited.

[00:01:08] **Michaela:** Yeah, I'm really happy that you're here. So, Harshit,
what makes it hard for developers or frustrating for developers if you think
about security?

[00:01:18] **Harshit:** I think, there are several aspects to it. I mean, if I
think I've had, I, myself, have been a developer for a very long time before I
jumped the, to the management train and, you know, started taking up more
leadership positions. And being a developer is like wearing multiple hats,
right?

Basically, you are writing software, then making sure that you ship that
software, writing tests, and as we've now gone into the DevOps and, you know,
CI/CD, and Agile methodologies, now we are no longer just looking software for
the application. But we are writing software for infrastructure as well, right?

So, we are managing microservices, we are managing the cloud, and we are
managing the end-to-end lifecycle. So now, a lot has been asked from one
developer, right? So it's no longer you asked for somebody who's full stack.
You ask somebody who's full stack, plus DevOps, plus SRE, and plus presales or
post-sales, right? Like, doing support as well.

Now, to mix all of these things with security is completely new ball game.
Because earlier, security was all about firewalls, right? You protect your
application by deploying a firewall, making sure there's no DDoS attacks and
you can buy an application from Cisco or Palo Alto, and that's it.

But these days, most of the hacks that you see are all software
vulnerabilities. Dependencies, which are vulnerable, or software that you write
is vulnerable. So, how do you kind of go and mitigate all of that? And it
becomes really, really challenging for somebody who's new, to kind of even
understand what the Attack Office is. What all possible things can be, kind of
wrong?

So, to give you an example, one of our customers, they use, they have a
standard stack. Python on the backend, React on the frontend, deploy it in
microservices in the cloud. Now, just this standard application, they use eight
different security tools to kind of make sure that the application is good
enough that they can ship.

So, these are basically secret scanning, code dependency scanning,
infrastructure scanning, container scanning. Then, you have just your source
code analysis scanning. And so, you could keep on, just making sure that you
are covered across all your bases. Now, if a developer, as a developer, you ask
me, okay, in addition to everything that I'm doing now, you want me to go and
look at eight tools and figure out the hundreds of vulnerabilities that exist
in my environment and something is coming from a dependency, which I don't even
know what to do about, it becomes like a big mess, right?

So that's why I would say security has become so difficult for developers, and
there has to be better ways to kind of manage these things.

[00:04:11] **Michaela:** So, I heard you talk mostly about scanning tools,
right? Using tools and automatically detect security vulnerabilities.

What about manually, actually checking those? It's also a hard problem? I'm all
about code reviews. And part of code review could also be to look a little bit
as input validation. For example, are there sequel injections? Are there, is
there, is Cross-site Scripting possible? Do I have some parameters, you know,
in, as get set, for example, and so on?

Is that still necessary? And are developers struggling with that in your
experience as well? And because the tools somehow look at the different tech
surface, right? They look at different kind of problems. They find a subset of
those problems as well.

But is there still this need also for developers to understand how to manually
check for those problems and know about secure coding practices?

[00:05:04] **Harshit:** Oh, a hundred percent. Everything that you mentioned
about your manually checking, going through code reviews, looking for things
that can be inputted are all valid concerns.

And that has to go through code training and making sure, you know, developers
are even aware that these problems can be fixed. But if I look at the whole,
broader perspective of a developers project today, with all these open source
technologies out there, developers are just writing, if, just purely from a
line of code perspective, let's say.

So, only 30% of the code is what developers write. The rest 70% is coming in
from third party libraries of some sorts, or any of the infrastructure that
you're already using. So, even if you manually code review, things that your
project are doing and your peers are doing, and that also in a very fast pace
environment, it becomes really difficult to kind of keep that happening.

[00:06:05] **Michaela:** Mm-hmm.

[00:06:06] **Harshit:** So, what we've observed is that very few
vulnerabilities get caught because somebody's doing a code review and, you
know, they point it out, unless it's right out there, right? Typically, it's
through automation that people find with these vulnerabilities.

And the other thing is, people use a lot of pen testing tools as well, right?
There is third party pen testers. There are in-house pen testers. And though
pen testers, they work very differently, but at the same time, their model is
that we want to replicate how an attacker would see it.

Because the attacker typically won't have access to your source code. So they
take it as a black box, and they're trying to kind of go and really hammer your
application. So, that's also one kind of a scan tool, if you think about it.
It's a security tool, pen testing tool that will go and hammer your application
as well.

But as I was saying, today, in pretty much every leading organization, you take
Netflix, Coinbase, yeah, you know, Airbnb, everybody does security through
automation. I mean, if you are starting on a new project, there's no way that
you can go ahead and say that, "Okay, I'm gonna manually go and find out
vulnerability."

It's just a very large surface area. And today, even with all these tools, it's
difficult to manage risk. I mean, there's no software out there today that is,
I would say, a hundred percent secure, right? We have 4,500 customers who have
over, I would say, half a million vulnerabilities in their environment, overall.

But now, that doesn't mean that, "Okay, you can go and hack any bank that you
want today," right? Because they are managing risk. They are managing, okay,
what needs to get fixed, how that needs to get fixed, what is the priority?
There are dedicated teams for those things. And so, but, the way those things
are, I mean, we can talk more about it from a security perspective as well, but
the way some of those things are done is not the most efficient way.

And even for smaller teams, we're just starting out, it becomes even more
difficult to kind of manage some of these things as well. And I can talk about
a survey that we did recently to kind of figure out what do application
developers feel overall about security as well as we continue on this.

[00:08:22] **Michaela:** Yeah, it would be really interesting. One thing that
I was wondering, especially if you are mentioning these large organizations,
right? So, for small organizations, I totally understand that, you know, one
dev has to wear so many hats. And I also see this shift, right? That the person
has to, developer is not only a full stack developer, but this DevOps, you
know, requirements, and the security requirements, and so on.

But aren't companies like the ones that you mentioned, especially the large
organizations like Microsoft or Google or, well, Coinbase is not in that
( _laugh_ ) in that sphere, but still, I think a larger organization, same as
Airbnb, I think they have dedicated security teams, right? And so, are the
developers really responsible? When I'm working with teams, especially from
large organization, and I bring up security and that they should think about it.

They're like, "What our thing (??)," right? ( _laugh_ ) And to really try to
get rid of this additional responsibility and say, "Well," you know, "We have
a team that actually does that." What's your experience here? Do you see that?

[00:09:28] **Harshit:** Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we've definitely seen it, but
you'll be very surprised that things are changing, okay?

And it's no longer about we have a separate security team. And especially in
the space that Tromzo or my work currently kind of goes into. So, security has
different facets. There's cloud security, there is application security, and
then there is other areas about security as well.

So, within application security, there is no way that the security team can go
and fix the issues, because they don't know anything about the code. The
developers are the one who are writing the code. Whether it's their own
software, or application logic that they're writing, or dependencies and
containers that they're bringing up to kind of run their services.

It's all the application developers. So even at Google or at Airbnb, it's now,
that's why we talk about the shift left. Everybody's trying to shift left,
which essentially means that the developers now definitely have that
responsibility. And I cannot totally understand. It's like a cultural shift as
well, right?

So we, if you go back in the day, we used to have QA engineers, right? We used
to have testers who would basically be responsible for testing the application.
Now, if you look at it, most modern teams don't have a QA engineer. More
software teams just don't have that position anymore because the developer has
taken the role.

In some bigger organizations, you'll hear somebody doing SDET, which is
basically software developer in test, which is writing infrastructure to manage
these tests, making sure the performance of these tests is good. You can run as
many tests excessively (??). Now, what we are seeing in security teams is
security teams are managing the risk in your application.

So they will define what we call a security guardrails where you can say,
"Okay, this is the container image that you can use for our container services.
This is what you can kind of push into your environment. Or this is what you
cannot do within, you cannot push out any secrets in your code." So, those kind
of become security guardrails as you're developing code.

And that is what the security team manages. But on a day to day basis, the
vulnerabilities that come out of your software need to be addressed by the
developers, right? And, yeah, developers, I know some of them are get really
excited about security, and some of them are like, "Hey, not me," you know?

And so, that is a big cultural change. And so, and there are, we can talk about
how we can mitigate some of that changes as well, because we've seen companies
go through that transformation, right? Couple of things that have really worked
well over there is, you know, push from the top.

If your CEO is emphasizing, "Okay, security is important for us," if your top
level executors are telling you that, "Okay, we need to kind of do more about
security," a large organizations have this position of a CSO, which is
basically a VP level position or even higher. And typically, if they have a
board seat, that means that, you know, they are part of the executive team.

They have a position there and they are mandating security, right? So, it
becomes like one of the pillars in an organization. And it's always good to see
that. On the lower level, on the engineering side itself, we have seen teams go
ahead and do gamification, right? So now, there are leaderboards happening.

Okay. This team introduced these many issues today. And this is how they are
trending week-on-week or one-on-one. Now, that kind of, you know, most
engineers are gamers as well, right? So, you kind of put in all this
gamification within fixing issues, and finding issues. Then, it kind of
increases the visibility, as well as make sure that people are driven to kind
of achieve a certain goal because it becomes like a community kind of a feel.

And so, we've seen a couple of organizations do that really well and where they
are doing some of these gamification. They have a leaderboard where they track
these things and everybody's made aware of what's happening in their
environment.

[00:13:49] **Michaela:** Yeah. And what about tools? You were talking about
tools, right? And that there are many tools and that the developers have to,
you know, understand them. But aren't we just, you know, set, you know, if we
have, let's say some automated tool in our GitHub, in the CI/CD pipeline,
thinking about Snyk, for example, or, you know, DeepSource, some study analysis
tools here, is that enough?

Or what do we need?

[00:14:14] **Harshit:** Yeah, yeah. That's a good question. What do we need?
So, the thing is this. That security is one of those fields where you can never
be sure that, you know, it's like protecting your home, right? Is a camera on
the front door enough or do you need one on the back door?

If you have both of these, do you need a motion detector? So now, it depends
on what you are guarding, right? What are your crown jewels? Let's say, it's a
bank. Then you need a camera every other place. You want to make sure that
there's things everywhere. But let's say, it's a public library or something
else where people are going to have access to everything.

So you, so it's all about managing risk, right? And then from a tooling, just
tooling perspective, you need a different kind of a tool for everything that
you are really trying to protect against. So, some companies are API companies.
For example, Postman, or let's say, Apigee, or things.

To, for them, API security becomes the most important thing, right? So they
would not just have one tool doing API security. They may have three different
tools doing all different kinds of API security. But if I'm talking about 80%
of the organizations, the seven, eight tools are basically what we call as SaaS
tools which do source code analysis, dependency, checking contain, secret
scanning, so, in which Snyk comes in.

And there are a bunch of other players as well like Veracode, and Checkmarx,
and, I mean, the list can go on and on. Then the other side comes, which is the
infrastructure scanning, where people are scanning for your Terraform code or
your CloudFormation code.

They're looking at your container images. So things like Aqua Security is there
for container images. There are open source ones as well. The new thing that
has come out is something called a supply chain security.

[00:13:49] **Michaela:** Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.

[00:16:10] **Harshit:** Like, how do you kinda make sure about not just
everything that you are importing, but how much of the supply chain, so as to
say, of the software is also being imported in your environment?

Making sure that is all there, so there's this whole angle of supply chain
security. And then, you know, just finally, it's all about your code, as I
said. Either your APIs, if you're using Python, then there will be a Python
Analyzer, if you're using React or JavaScript, there'll be a child, there'll be
a language specific thing as well.

And then, a lot of security typically goes with compliance as well. So, you
have licenses as well, that people need to monitor for. So there are license
based checks and license based scanners as well, making sure you're not
importing something, which is unofficially not a good license that you want to
have in your enterprise product.

So, there are all these different variations of things that you would need to
make sure that you're running a good application security program.

And in a survey that I was talking about, we, well, basically there's, it came
out to, like, 62% of the developers are using today, 11 or more sec
application, security tools in their environment. So you can see that that
number is high and it is going higher and higher as we kind of make everything
software.

[00:17:31] **Michaela:** So, what can we do to make it easier for developers?
So, we are talking about the, you know, we have this shift left, there, they
need to be more responsible for it, we are talking about that also
infrastructure is now code, right? We are talking about that there are so many
tools.

So, what can we do to make it easier for them? What can we do to reduce the
friction?

[00:17:52] **Harshit:** Yeah, absolutely. And I think, there are three things
here. It's technology, process, and people. And we can talk about all three of
them and how all of that can change to kind of aid in making this thing easier
for everybody.

So, let's talk about the technology perspective first. So, clearly, if you have
eight things that you need to do, the human mind is not capable of doing that.
So, it's easier if there is one thing that tells you what to do, right? So, you
would need sort of an orchestrator or a management platform that makes sure
that, you know, you are getting these reports from these eight or 11 things,
and they are bagging reported in a way that is meaningful to you.

So, not that you have to go to a dashboard. But if the message is coming to you
on a Slack channel, or coming to you directly on your GitHub PR. There's no
point in telling me, "Okay, I filed a JIRA ticket because I introduced a secret
in the code."

It should come right there in the PR. So it should block the PR with, it should
not allow me to kind of go and merge something, which I should not be merging.
So, that whole notion about shifting left and taking it to as much left, right?
Even going as further as going inside your IDE, having a good pre-commit hook,
like today, to kind of validate some of those things as well.

So, if I have to really talk about from a tech perspective, we need three
things there. One is visibility of what all things I have in my environment and
why all of this is secure or not secure, and what do I stand right now, and
kind of measure that on an ongoing basis.

The second thing I need is automation, right? Making sure that if I have
hundred thousand things, you know? Typically in container worlds, right? You
will have 500 vulnerabilities come up. And typically, the fix will be, "Okay,
go ahead and upgrade your OS image."

And that will just solve 500 things. Now, I can't go and file 500 tickets in
JIRA, for example, for that one thing. It has to be one thing and just tell me
exactly what to do. And then, as a developer, I can just go ahead and do that.
So, just managing that process, what the scanner is telling you, and what the
JIRA ticket is, and how do I go and mitigate it, that whole process can be
totally automated.

And so, there are many of these workflows that can be automated out, in your
environment. So then, workflow automation becomes a key thing from a tech
perspective. And then the last thing is being able to just constantly monitor
this, making sure that there is an assistant bot, so I use to say.

Like, your co-pilot, your co-developer is constantly on your shoulder, just
nudging you to do the right thing and making sure that it tells you right there
and there when you're about to commit a mistake or do something. That, "Okay.
No, no, no, that is wrong. You can't do that," right?

So, solving these three things from a tech perspective, I think become really
good. And there are a lot of other things that individually can be done in all
of these three things. But I feel like just having that shift left mindset and
being able to kind of go and finish that, would really help solve, I would say,
60 to 70% of this.

Then, the rest comes into the process and the people, right? When I said
people, let's talk about people first. Security needs to be in the culture,
right? It needs to come down from the top that, you know, security is something
that is important, you are allocated time, right?

It can't be like engineers are asked to kind of, of course ship features, but
they also need to be allocated certain time to fix security issues inside, and
inside their sprint planning, right? It can't be like, "Okay, we'll do security
last." Security needs to be at the forefront. In fact, even before, if you're
launching a completely new service, you should do security reviews before
launching that new service.

Not that, "Hey, I'm now already built that. Now, what do I do about it? Now, I
have a big gap in this." So, having that kind of a mindset is very, very
important. And then, having processes defined. How do you kind of ask for
exceptions, for example, right? Let's say, the developer is really busy right
now.

And he wants to ask for an exception. "Okay, give me couple of weeks before I
can get to this issue." How can the security team manage that risk and make
sure that, you know, that is kind of documented? Because the ratio of security
people to developers is really bad, right? If there's one security engineer to
200 developers.

If even 10% of them ask for an exception, there's no way that security engineer
can even just manage that process, right? So, how do you manage those workflows
and that processes, and define them in your organization about what is
considered, say, P0? And what is, how do you manage exceptions?

How do you manage due dates? And how do you track SLAs? All of those things,
if you have a good defined process, then things become really, really smooth,
right? You can think about this being very similar to how DevOps today works.
You have Datadog and Century doing this really day in, day out because they had
to move it from dedicated DevOps people to engineers who are now managing
infrastructure.

So, it's a very similar process that I think even security needs to get into,
right? Where it's going to be continuous. You will have SLAs that you need to
meet, and you will have pager duty alerts that need to get addressed as soon as
the security issues found.

So, I think, there is enough equivalent that we can see in other fields that
has happened, and I'm pretty sure we can embed some of those learnings within
the security teams too.

[00:23:42] **Michaela:** Yeah. So, especially the thing that you said at the
beginning, triggered a couple of thoughts for me. So, if you have so many
tools, obviously, they're reporting so many issues and we have to assign them
a priority, right? We are also have to find duplications ( _laugh_ ) because
if we have tools, they are, normally, they are not scanning for very dedicated
things and they are overlapping, right?

So one tool finds a little bit more in this area, but a lot also in the same
area as, you know, the other tool. And so, you know, I'm getting, let's say,
you are mentioning 11 tools. I probably get five times the same issue from all
of those tools, right? And so, it would be good to have them together and then
also assign some priorities so that I know what to look for.

I mean, it's already starting with studying analysis, right? I get all these
errors and I don't even know where to look at or what to do first. So, is that
also what you are hinting at? It, you know, it's really important to help wade
through all of those information that we are getting from all of those tools,
and especially from different tools, right?

Because within one tool, people obviously thought about, you know, how to
package it and how to make it more adjustable. But if you have 11 tools,
they're not made in a way, you know, that they're used together.

[00:25:03] **Harshit:** Absolutely. You are a hundred percent correct. And
that's the biggest problem today, right?

Because now you have 11 tools telling you some things which are different, but
there are enough number of things which are overlapping as well. And so, how do
you kind of make sense of it? And the bigger thing is this. That, how do you
even manage risk? How do you kind of go ahead and prioritize it?

As I was saying, that one of our customers has over 3,500 repos. There are 200
engineers in the team and there are 3,500 repos. I mean, it's a, it's been, the
company has been around for a long time. So, of course, you know, you go
through these phases. But as a security team, how do you even know what needs
to happen to that 3,500 repos?

Who's actually using those 3,500 repos? Or they are even deployed in
production, right? So, if I go and scan everything, then I'm going to find, as
I said, over 200, 300 thousand issues across all of these tools. Then, if I
just have to go manually do one issue per day, I'm looking at years ( _laugh_ )
before I get to it.

And by that time, there'll be 300,000 more issues, right? So, absolutely, you
know? Combining all of these together, correlating it, de-duplicating it, and
at the same time, making sure that we can automatically prioritize all these
things becomes a piece of priority for a security team itself as an imperative
of how do you kind of manage risk. And, yeah.

I mean, that's the fundamental problem that people are kind of facing. I mean,
that's exactly the problem. That was the thesis before we started Tromzo. I
mean, that is what I was facing back at Juniper as well when I was leading my
team. I had three products, over a hundred engineers, and it was a big issue
for me.

And when I basically went out and talked to other engineers, and some of my
peer in the industry, and security folks, it became like, "Yeah, it's a problem
for my team as well." And when I heard that over, you know, several times, I
said, "Okay, let's start a company and solve this problem."

[00:27:14] **Michaela:** Yeah. So another thing that I want to, you know,
briefly talk about and you mentioned it at very, at the beginning was only 30%
or something around this number is written in-house, right? And the rest, we
are relying on more and more services. And, you know, we are all that happy
that, you know, it's in the cloud and, you know, I don't have to think about
authentication because there are services doing it for me.

And I don't have to think about logging because there's an open source system
that can do it at already for me, a package that I can use, right? And then,
we have ( _laugh_ ) Log4j, and the vulnerabilities, and so on, right? And
suddenly, we are all facing, you know, real issues, real travels. But on the
other hand, I mean, I have some scanners running for my little projects, and
they're just, you know, they're not high risk.

They're not, you know, bringing in millions or something. So I don't feel that,
you know, I have a big issue with not updating them frequently or with some
vulnerabilities. So I get, weekly, I'm getting, you know, "You are using some
unsecure version over here. You should do something over here."

And it's really hard to keep up with that. Is that also something that you
think can be improved?

[00:28:29] **Harshit:** Yeah. No, that's a really, really good question. And
definitely we need to kind of, you know, think more about that, right? At the
end of the day, as you're saying, you are running some of those projects, and
you are running some scanners, and they are reporting some things to, you need
to go and fix them.

Now, that's I feel like if I'm a purist, then I would say, "Yes, you have to go
and fix them," right? Now, but at the same time, you have to kind of manage the
risk of it. For example, if you have something what we call as RCE, which is
Remote Code Execution, that pretty much means that that kind of vulnerability,
if it exists in your system, then anybody can basically go and do anything in
your environment, right?

What happens is this. That there are few that come in, and then they become a
big deal, like the examples that you took of, about Log4j. So, one of the real
use cases for using Tromzo for our customers was trying to find out where all
Log4J exist in their environment.

Because they had, today, no way to kind of figure out, before Tromzo, across
all their services and assets and everything that they're using, how and where,
if I even, if I'm using that library or not. So, it becomes really critical to
kind of identify what you want to kind of fix. Because if the tool is just
reporting, "Okay," that, "Okay, you have a very critical severity."

But let's say you only using it in your test environment. It's not even used in
production, you're not shipping that software anywhere, then probably you don't
need to fix it as soon as it's there, right? But at the same time, if you have
something critical and it is internet facing, then you probably want to kind of
fix it, right?

So, it's not, it's one thing that the tool is giving you some information. But
at the same time, you want to make sure that, you know, you have a way to
manage that risk and you define what is okay in your environment. And that is
the most important thing here. Because you cannot, and I can stress double
there, that you pretty much cannot fix everything that the tool is reporting to
you.

There is no way you will have bandwidth to do that. So then, it's all about
managing risk and how do you kind of go about managing all of that.

[00:30:56] **Michaela:** So, you run this survey that you already mentioned,
right? The voice of the modern developer. What was the main finding that was
surprising to you?

[00:31:04] **Harshit:** So, the key things that came out of the voice of the
developer survey, some of the key things that were a little surprising for me
were that one of, let me start with the first one. Developers are, I mean,
we've been talking about this. But even developers know about it, that they are
fixing only 32% of the vulnerabilities that exist in the environment today.

So, out of three vulnerabilities that are being found, only one third is, I
mean, only one is getting kind of fixed. I would say not a surprising factor,
but the ratio is quite surprising, right? I mean, we knew that we are not
fixing everything, but just one third, it seems like quite a bit. Especially
these are all B2B applications or B2C applications where, you know, is actually
generating a lot of money and revenue.

The other thing that came out of this is a one third of the overall
vulnerabilities that are reported by some of these scanners are also just
noise. So now, clearly, the scanning companies also need to do a lot better
here because if they feel that they're reporting false positives on that high
level, right?

Because at the end of the day, most scanners are just rules, right? They kind
of check for patterns or check for things. And so, if those are not really
highly accurate or don't cover a lot of cases, then it becomes a problem as
well. So we see that, you know, developers are not too happy about it, that,
you know, there are so many vulnerabilities which are just basically noise.

And then, the other thing was that, you know, they found that they are actually
pushing code, which is vulnerable. Like, 42% of the developers push vulnerable
code once per month. So now, this was also something interesting that they know
that the code is vulnerable, but they still are going and pushing it.

Because it's, they need to kind of go and deliver features at the end of the
day. And they don't have enough bandwidth to kind of go ahead and fix some of
these things as well, right? So we are seeing all these different things
pointing out to the same problem where the problem is massive.

There's not enough resources to fix it. And the problem being massive itself is
a problem in it itself. You know what I mean? ( _laugh_ ) So it's all coming
together in such a way that, clearly, if not mitigated or not addressed, it can
really blow up to be a major, major thing.

[00:33:50] **Michaela:** Yeah, I totally see that. Especially with studying
analysis tools, right? We have the same thing, right? So some people just turn
them off or drastically reduce the rules, so that it becomes, first of all,
manageable, but also meaningful, right? Because if you have all these false
positives or little issues, you know, that are, you know, not that critical, it
takes away from your attention, right?

And so I think that, especially this prioritization and making sure that you
know this is really something you should fix here. And those, you know, because
you said, well, one third is only addressed, right? But one third is noise,
right? So there's this in the mid, another third, right?

Which we should actually look at, or at least wade through, and make sure that
those important issues from this one third are, you know, covered or shifted
somewhere. Yeah. I totally see that.

[00:34:42] **Harshit:** Yeah, exactly. And I think, you read the numbers right.
So, that's the gap here. I mean, and attackers just need one way to get in,
right?

I mean, they don't need one third or they don't have too many things that they
go for. They just need one way. And so, for you, it's like, how do you kind of
mitigate it. And also, the thing is that it's not that they're going to use the
same thing year in, year out, right? So, earlier it was SolarWinds, now it was
Log4j, now it was Spring4Shell, and by December in Christmas, that would be
something else, right?

[00:35:21] **Michaela:** Yeah. Yeah.

[00:35:22] **Harshit:** So, it's, I mean, we definitely know that something's
going to come up. So, how prepared are you for this Christmas is, essentially,
is the question the security team needs to ask themselves.

[00:35:33] **Michaela:** Yeah. Thank you so much, Harshit, for, you know, all
your wisdom and your insights into security. I think now is the time that you
also tell a little bit more about Tromzo. It's the end of the show, right? And
so, maybe if people want to check it out, you're working on this, right? You're
the co-founder and CTO of this startup.

So, I think I understood quite a bit of the ideas behind of the motivations,
you know, why you are on this path. But maybe you can share a little bit of
this path to, you know, wrap this episode up. Maybe also, how long have you,
you know, have you been doing this? Have you developed Tromzo, and what's your
solution?

What do you think is the right way to do that in a, I guess, softer way
( _laugh_ ).

[00:36:18] **Harshit:** Yeah, absolutely. And thank you for asking that. So,
yeah. We started Tromzo about, I would say, 15 months back. So we are a, I
would say, a relatively new company. But at the same time, both me and my
co-founder have years of experience, both in engineering and as well as
security.

So, we are not new to the space or new to the problem. The problem, as I said,
just intensified in the last couple of years, with everything becoming
software. As I was saying, that network, it became software. Your
infrastructure became software, your microservices, just to cough (??), right?

And you have now a per (??) repo. Earlier, everything used to be a monorepo.
Now, you have a repo for every small little thing as well, right? Everything
became, I would say, a node module, right? You write a function, it becomes a
node module, right? And then, nobody really knows you need a node module or not.

But so, then, dependencies really to cough (??). So, a lot of these things
exponentially scaled in the last few years. And so, this problem that we talked
about, about how do you go ahead and manage risk in your environment, which is
essentially looking at all the security findings that you have in your
environment.

Figuring out what all, even software assets that you have. Forget the
vulnerabilities first. What are software assets that you have, which we call as
SBOM or Software Bill of Materials? What do you even have over there? How, what
is the different tools that you are running? Do you, are you even scanning for
all of these things, which are kind of important in your environment? And then,
also then, going and looking at, okay, what are those tools reporting, right?

Combining all of this just gives you the visibility, right? So it gives you a
pretty dashboard, but again, that is not the end. I mean, that's good to know
that I have something, that's the first step. But then, how do you kind of go
and automate some of the prioritization that you need to do with it?

So, building in that context about what is important, why this is important for
me to kind of fix environment and being able to prioritize it in a way which is
automated, becomes really, really key. And that's where Tromzo comes in. And
that's why we bought, built Tromzo to help you kind of figure out, "Here is
everything that all the tools are reporting, but this is what I'm going to
prioritize."

And then, just prioritizing it also doesn't solve the needle, right? The key
needle is that, how do you influence developers to kind of go and fix them?
So, we've built out all the things that I talked about, like leaderboards.

Going and talking to engineers in the workspaces that they work in, making sure
that we automatically comment in PRs, sending them Slack messages, and making
sure that, you know, they have the full context of how something needs to get
fixed. There's no need opening a JIRA ticket or telling them something if
there's no fix available, right?

What are they going to do? Yeah, it is there, right? You know, big deal. So,
making sure, you know, you make software security really easy for developers
and having the tool that does that is essentially what we kind of, say, that
that's what our vision is, and that's what we are driving towards.

And so, we've kind of built out, I would say, the initial framework of doing
all of these things. And we have a lot of, I would say, thought leaders in this
space where kind of helping us as well. We have 26 CSOs from leading
organizations like Coinbase, Robinhood, and Lemonade, and a lot of other folks
who are kind of coming and helping us build this thing in the right way as well.

So, the goal for us is to kind of make every software security team successful
and, you know, they become the heroes of the company. And that's our really
goal in making Tromzo.

[00:40:12] **Michaela:** It is sound really exciting. And well, I, I've been
doing a lot of data mining at Microsoft. And, you know, Pack detection, finding
duplicate Packs, and so on.

And I know, you know, it's quite a tricky task. So, how good are you? I mean,
15 months in is probably not that long, right? So, do you see initial results
that people are really happy with what you can do automatically? How you can
group those things? How you can find applications, reduce that, prioritize
that, and do that all automatically?

Is that working already really good? And what do your first bit of (??) users
say? Your users? How far are you with this mission?

[00:40:49] **Harshit:** Yeah. I mean, so, we are very far, I would say, in
making sure that, you know, there's adoption of the platform itself. So, we
have paying customers today. And they're being, so, we started with high-end
midmarket kind of, where, you know, there are at least like a thousand plus
people in the company, at least, you know, 500 plus engineers.

So they have dedicated security team working towards resolving that. Because,
as I said, we wanna make them heroes. So, they are really happy with the
product. We've, what we started with was definitely the visibility piece, and
then the automation.

And now, we are getting more and more entrenched into the developer workflows.
Because every engineering team and every engineering culture is a little
different, right? Some of our teams are customers that we work it, everything
is open, right? They know everything about everything. Everybody is okay in
learning about somebody else's vulnerabilities.

And it's like a, I would say, total open culture. There is another customer
where everything is closed, right? Like, you can only show this to this person
or you cannot even know what other services somebody else is working on. So, we
are working through some of those workflows right now and building out those
features.

And then the other big thing that we are doing now is also helping customers
run some of these tools. So, for example, as I said, there are 11 tools that
customers are using, but at the end of the day, they're not still doing
everything that they could be doing, right?

So, maybe they're not looking at Go dependencies, or maybe they're not looking
for secrets in code, or maybe they're not doing something else. So, there is
always that gap in which that you have left something out, because A, you
didn't have money, or B, you didn't have resources. So we are helping them
bridge that gap as well.

So, because it's good to manage what you have, but it's also good to, or I
would say, great to kind of actually make sure that you covered the entire
office, right? So now, we are working with more security teams out there to
kind of bridge the gap of what they have and what they want or where they want
to be, and continue to that journey.

So our goal is, at the end of the day, if you ask me five years from down the
line, what do you want Tromzo to be? We want it to be the platform that
application security team goes to for all the application security needs. So
today, if you think about an equal, it would be like a Salesforce.

For every sales engineer or every salesperson out there, they have Salesforce
as their system of record that basically coordinates, manages everything to do
with sales, right? Today, in security, there is, something like that doesn't
exist, right? So that's what our vision is, to kind of build that system of
record and system of engagement for all of security folks.

And then, also making sure that the developers also feel bought into it and
they kind of work together with security on this platform.

[00:43:54] **Michaela:** It is sounds really exciting. I'm so happy for your
journey. I, you know, I'm getting really like, wow, I would jump in in that as
well. So, I'm going to link Tromzo, obviously, in the show notes so people
should definitely check it out.

And I will also link your voice of the modern developer survey, and, yeah.
Maybe some other links that you want me to put. And, yeah, I'm really happy
that you have been here, Harshit, today. It was great to talk to you.

[00:44:19] **Harshit:** Thank you very much. And you too. Thank you.

[00:44:24] **Michaela:** Yeah, bye bye. I hope you enjoyed another episode of
the Soft Engineering Unlocked Podcast.

Don't forget to subscribe, and I talked to you again in two weeks. Bye.
